Narrated Mughirah ibn Shu'bah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) went (outside) to relieve himself, he went to a far-off place (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) felt the need of relieving himself, he went far off where no one could see him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Another tradition on the authority of Anas has:" O Allaah, I seek refuge in Thee." Shu'bah said: Anas sometimes reported the words: "I take refuge in Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd ibn Arqam: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: These privies are frequented by the jinns and devils. So when anyone amongst you goes there, he should say: "I seek refuge in Allah from male and female devils (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ma'qil ibn AbuMa'qil al-Asadi: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) has forbidden us to face the two qiblahs at the time of urination or excretion (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abd Allaah b. 'Umar :I ascended the roof of the house and saw the Apostle of Allaah ( sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam) sitting on two bricks facing Jerusalem (Bait al-Maqdis) for relieving himself (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) forbade us to face the qiblah at the time of making water. Then I saw him facing it (qiblah) urinating or easing himself one year before his death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A'ishah:The Apostle of Allaah ( sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam ) used to remember Allaah, the Great and Majestic, at all moments (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: A tradition from the Prophet (sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam ) conveying similar meaning. The version of Jarir has the wording : "he did not cover himself while urinating." The version of Abu Mu'awiyah has the wording: "he did not safeguard himself (from urine) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umaymah daughter of Ruqayqah: The Prophet (ﷺ) had a wooden vessel under his bed in which he would urinate at night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Jabal: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Be on your guard against three things which provoke cursing: easing in the watering places and on the thoroughfares, and in the shade (of the tree) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mughaffal: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: No one of you should make water in his bath and then wash himself there (after urination). The version of Ahmad has: Then performs ablution there, for evil thoughts come from it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Sarjis: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited to urinate in a hole. Qatadah (a narrator) was asked about the reason for the disapproval of urinating in a hole. He replied: It is said that these (holes) are the habitats of the jinn (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When the Prophet (ﷺ) came out of the privy, he used to say: "Grant me Thy forgiveness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hafsah, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) used his right hand for taking his food and drink and used his left hand for other purposes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) used his right hand for getting water for ablution and taking food, and his left hand for his evacuation and for anything repugnant (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah, also reported a tradition bearing similar meaning through another chain of transmitters (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir b. 'Abd Allaah:The Apostle of Allaah ( sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam ) forbade us to use a bone or dung for wiping (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: A deputation of the jinn came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: O Muhammad, forbid your community to cleans themselves with a bone or dung or charcoal, for in them Allah has provided sustenance for us. So the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade them to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When any of you goes to relieve himself, he should take with him three stones to cleans himself, for they will be enough for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah :(the Prophet, sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam ) as saying : Were it not that I might oeverburdern the believers, I would order them to delay the night ('isha ) prayer and use the tooth-stick at the time of every prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was using the tooth-stick, when two men, one older than the other, were with him. A revelation came to him about the merit of using the tooth-stick. He was asked to show proper respect and give it to the elder of the two (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Shuraih asked 'Aishah:"What would the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) do as soon as he entered the house?" She replied: "(He would use) the siwak (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) would clean his teeth with the Siwak, then he would give me the Siwak in order to wash it. So I would first use it myself, then wash it and return it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifah:When the Apostle of Allaah (sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam) got up during the night (to pray), he cleansed his mouth with the tooth-stick (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Ablution water and tooth-stick were placed by the side of the Prophet (ﷺ). When he got up during the night (for prayer), he relieved himself, then he used the tooth-stick (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not get up after sleeping by night or by day without using the tooth-stick before performing ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbulMalih: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah does not accept charity from goods acquired by embezzlement as He does not accept prayer without purification (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Apostle of Allaah ( sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam ) said : Allaah, the Exalted, does not accept the prayer of any of you when you are defiled until you performed ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The key to prayer is purification; its beginning is takbir and its end is taslim (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ), was asked about water (in desert country) and what is frequented by animals and wild beasts. He replied: When there is enough water to fill two pitchers, it bears no impurity (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abd Allaah b. 'Umar:The Messenger of Allaah (sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam) was asked about water in desert. He then narrated a similar tradition (as mentioned above) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The people asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): Can we perform ablution out of the well of Buda'ah, which is a well into which menstrual clothes, dead dogs and stinking things were thrown? He replied: Water is pure and is not defiled by anything (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: One of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) took a bath from a large bowl. The Prophet (ﷺ) wanted to perform ablution or take from the water left over. She said to him: O Prophet of Allah, verily I was sexually defiled. The Prophet said: Water not defiled (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah :The Prophet ( sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam ) said : None amongst you should urinate in stagnant water , and then wash in it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: None amongst you should urinate in standing water, then wash in it after sexual defilement (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aishah :I and the Messenger of Allaah ( sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam ) took a bath from one vessel while we were sexually defiled (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: My hands and the hands of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) alternated into one vessel while we performed ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar: The males and females during the time of the Apostle of Allaah ( sal Allahu alayhi wa sallam ) used to perform the ablution from one vessel together. The wordings "from one vessel" occur in the version of Musaddad (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abd Allaah b. 'Umar:We (men) and women during the life-time of the Apostle of Allaah ( sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam) used to perform ablution from one vessel. We all put our hands in it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hakam ibn Amr: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that the male should perform ablution with the water left over by the female (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Alqamah:I asked 'Abd Allaah b Mas'ud: Which of you was in the company of the Messenger of Allaah ( sal Allaahu alayhi wa sallam ) on the night when the jinn attended him? He replied : None of us was with him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
It is reported that 'Ata did not approve of performing ablution with milk and nabidh and said:tayammum is more my liking (than performing ablution with milk and nabidh) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Khaldah:I asked Abu'l-'Aliyah whether a person who is sexually defiled and has no water with him, but he has only nabidh, can wash with it? He replied in the negative (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to wash himself with a sa' (of water) and perform ablution with a mudd (of water). Abu Dawud said: This tradition has also been narrated by Aban on the authority of Qatadah. In this version he said: "I herd safiyyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to take a bath with a sa' (of water) and perform ablution with a mudd (of water) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Umarah: Habib al-Ansari reported: I heard Abbad ibn Tamim who reported on the authority of my grandmother, Umm Umarah, saying: The Prophet (ﷺ) wanted to perform ablution. A vessel containing 2/3 mudd of water was brought to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. ‘Amr reported :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw some people (performing ablution) while their heels were dry. He then said : Woe to the heels because of Hell. Perform the ablution in full (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: I and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to take bath with a brass vessel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been narrated on the authority of ‘A’ishah through a different chain (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Zayd: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came upon us. We brought water for him in a brass vessel and he performed ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The prayer of a person who does not perform ablution is not valid, and the ablution of a person who does not mention the name of Allah (in the beginning) is not valid (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When anyone amongst you wakes up from sleep at night, he should not put his hand in the utensil until he has washed his hand three times, for he does’ not know where his hand was during the night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This Tradition has been reported by Abu Hurairah through another chain of transmitters. It adds :“ twice or thrice.” This version does not mention Abu Razin (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported :I heard the Messenger of Allah (May Peace be upon him) say: When any of you wakes up from sleep, he should not put his hand in the utensil until he washes it three times, for none of you knows where his hand remained during the night or where it went round (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Shaqiq b. Salamah said :I saw ‘ Uthman b. ‘ Affan (perform ablution). He washed his forearms three times and washed his head thrice. He then said : I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing like that. Abu Dawud said: Another version says: "He performed ablution three times only (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd al-Rahman b. Abi Laila says:I saw ‘ Ali performing ablution. He washed his face three times and his hands three times and wiped his head once. Then he (‘Ali) said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform ablution in this way (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. Zaid b. ‘Asim reported this tradition saying:He rinsed his mouth and snuffed up water from one hand, doing that three times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Another version says:He wiped his ears inside and outside. Hisham adds: He inserted his fingers in the ear-holes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Another version says:He performed each part of the ablution three times and washed his feet times without number (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Uqail reported this tradition with a slight change of wording. In his tradition he said:He rinsed his mouth three times and snuffed up water three times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Rubayyi’ daughter of Mu’awwidh b. ‘Afra’ reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed ablution in her presence. He wiped the whole of his head from its upper to the lower part moving every side. He did not move the hair from their original position (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Rubayyi’ daughter of Mu’awwidh b. ‘Afra’ said:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing ablution. He wiped his head front and back, his temples and his ears once (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Rubayyi’ reported:The Prophet (ﷺ) wiped his head with water which was left over in his hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ar-Rubayyi' daughter of Mu'awwidh ibn Afra': The Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution. He inserted his two fingers in the ear-holes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: Sa'id ibn Jubayr reported: Ibn Abbas saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed ablution. He narrated the tradition which says that he (the Prophet) performed each detail of ablution three times. He wiped his head and ears once (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (my peace be upon him) washed the limbs in ablution twice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Ata’ b. Yasar quoting Ibn. ‘Abbas said:May I not tell you how the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed ablution? He then performed ablution washing each limb once only (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Grandfather of Talhah: I entered upon the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was performing ablution, and the water was running down his face and beard to his chest. I saw him rinsing his mouth and snuffing up water separately (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When any of you performs ablution, he should snuff up water in his nose and eject mucus (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Cleanse your nose well (after snuffing up water) twice or thrice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The version of Ibn Juraij has the working:“If you perform ablution, then rinse your mouth.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: Whenever the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed ablution, he took a handful of water, and, putting it under his chin, made it go through his beard, saying: Thus did my Lord command me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Thawban: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent out an expedition. They were affected by cold. When they returned to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), he commanded them to wipe over turbans and stockings (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: I saw the Messenger (ﷺ) perform ablution. He had a Qutri turban. He inserted his hand beneath the turban and wiped over the forelock, and did not untie the turban (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Mustawrid ibn Shaddad: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) rubbing his toes with his little finger when he performed ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Mughirah b. Shu’bah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed ablution and wiped his forelock and turban. Another version says : The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiped his socks and his forelock and his turban. Bakr said: I heard it from Ibn al-Mughirah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu ‘Abd al-Rahman al-Sulami said that he witnessed ‘Abd al-Rahman b. ‘Awf asking Bilal about the ablution of the Prophet (ﷺ). Bilal said:He went out to relieve himself. Then I brought water for him and he performed ablution, and wiped over his turban and socks (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Mughirah b. Shu’bah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiped over the socks and I said: Messenger of Allah, have you forgotten ? He said: My Lord has commanded me to do this (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughirah ibn Shu'bah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiped over the socks. Another version adds: "On the back (upper part) of the socks (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: If the religion were based on opinion, it would be more important to wipe the under part of the shoe than the upper but I have seen the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiping over the upper part of his shoes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been transmitted through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:“I always preferred to wash the under part of the feet until I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiping the upper part of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughirah ibn Shu'bah: I poured water while the Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution in the battle of Tabuk. He wiped over the upper part of the socks and their lower part. Abu Dawud said: I have been told that Thawr did not hear this tradition from Raja (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A man from Thaqif on the authority of his father reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) urinate, and he sprinkled water on the private parts of his body (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hakam or Ibn al-Hakam on the authority of his father reported:The Prophet (ﷺ) urinated; then he performed ablution and sprinkled water on the private parts of his body (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Asad b. ‘Amr said:I asked Anas b. Malik about ablution. He replied: The Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution for each prayer and we offered (many) prayers with the same ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hasan narrated from the Prophet (ﷺ) a tradition conveying the same meaning as that of Qatadah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Some Companions of the Prophet: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a person offering prayer, and on the back of his foot a small part equal to the space of a dirham remained unwashed; the water did not reach it. The Prophet (ﷺ) commanded him to repeat the ablution and prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: If any one of you offers prayer and feels a movement between his paddocks, but is doubtful whether or not his ablution broke, he should not cease praying unless he hears a sound or perceives a smell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah reported:The Prophet (ﷺ) kissed one of his wives and went out to pray (salah). He did not perform ablution. 'Urwah said: I said to her: Who is she except you! Thereupon she laughed. Abu Dawud said: The same version has been reported through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition has also been reported by Qais b. Talq through a different chain of narrators. This version adds the wording:"during the prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took (the meat of) a (goat's) shoulder and offered prayer and did not perform ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a shoulder (of goat's meat) and after wiping his hand with a cloth on which he was sitting, he got up and prayed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:The Prophet (ﷺ) ate a little meat from a (goat's) shoulder. He then offered prayer and did not perform ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said:The last practice of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was that he did not perform ablution after taking anything that was cooked with the help of fire. Abu Dawud said: This is the abridgment of the former tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Perform ablution after eating anything which has been cooked by fire (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b.’Abbas said that the Prophet (peace be upon him) drank some milk and then rinsed his mouth saying :it contains greasiness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) drank some milk and he did not rinse his mouth nor did he perform ablution, and he offered the prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The eyes are the leather strap of the anus, so one who sleeps should perform ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn Talq: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When any of you breaks wind during the prayer, he should turn away and perform ablution and repeat the prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Jabal: I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): What is lawful for a man to do with his wife when she is menstruating? He replied: What is above the waist-wrapper, but it is better to abstain from it, too. Abu Dawud said: This (tradition) is not strong (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying :when anyone sits between the four parts of a woman and the parts (of the male and female) which are circumscised join together, then bath becomes obligatory (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aba Sa’id al-Khudri reported :The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) said : water (bath) is necessary only when there is seminal emission. And Abu Salamah followed it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported :One day the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) had sexual intercourse with (all) his wives with a single bath. Abu Dawud said: This tradition has been transmitted through another chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu sa’id al-Khudri reported :The Prophet (May peace be upon him) said : When any of you has intercourse with his wife and desire to repeat it, he should perform ablution between them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah reported:when the prophet (ﷺ) intended to sleep while he was sexually defiled, he would perform ablution as he did for prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah reported :When the Prophet (May peace be upon him) wanted to eat or sleep, he would perform ablution. She meant that (the prophet did so) when he was sexually defiled (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Angels do not enter the house where there is a picture, or a dog, or a person who is sexually defiled (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hudhaifah reported :The prophet (ﷺ) visited him and inclined towards him (for shaking hand). He said : I am sexually defiled. The prophet (ﷺ) replied : A muslim is not defiled (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jubair b. Mut’im reported :People made a mention of washing because of sexual defilement before the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him). The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) said: I pour (water) on my head three times. And he made a sign with both his hands (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: If you want, I can certainly show you the marks of the hand of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the wall where he took a bath because of sexual defilement (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: There is sexual defilement under every hair; so wash the hair and cleanse the skin. Abu Dawud said: The tradition narrated by Harith b. Wajih is rejected (Munkar). He is weak (in transmission) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a bath and offered two rak'ahs of prayer and said the dawn prayer. I do not think he performed ablution afresh after taking a bath (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Umm Salamah said:A women came to her, this is according to the version of the former tradition. I asked the Prophet (May peace be upon him) a similar question (as in the former tradition). But this version adds: “And wring out your locks after every handful of water” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:When any of us was sexually defiled, she took three handfuls (of water) in this way, that is to say, with both hands together and poured (water) over her head. She took one handful (of water) and threw it on one side and the other on the other side (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:we took a bath while having an adhesive substance over us (our head) in both states, namely, when wearing a robe for Hajj (ihram) and when wearing ordinary clothes (not meant for Hajj) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) used to wash his head with marsh-mallow while he was sexually defiled. It was sufficient for him and he did not pour water upon it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
On being asked about (washing) the fluid that flows between man and woman ‘A’ishah said:The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) used to take a handful of water and pour it on the fluid. Again, he would take a handful of water and pour it over the fluid (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:I would eat flesh from a bone when I was menstruating, then hand it over to the Prophet(ﷺ) and he would put his mouth where I had put my mouth: I would drink, then hand it over to him, and he would put his mouth( at the place) where I drank (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) would recline on my lap when I was menstruating, then recite the Qur’an (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) said to me; Get me the mat from the mosque. I said ; I am menstruating. The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) then replied: Your menstruation is not in your hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been narrated through a different chain of the authority of Mu’adhah al-‘Adawiyyah from ‘A’ishah. This version adds; we were commanded to complete the (abandoned) fast, but were commanded to complete the (abandoned) prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said:If one has intercourse in the beginning of the menses,(one should give) one dinar; in case one has intercourse towards the end of the menses, then half a dinar (should be given) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Maimunah said:The Prophet (ﷺ) would contact and embrace any of his wives while she was menstruating. She would wear the wrapper up to half the the thighs or cover her knees with it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said; When anyone amongst us (the wives of the Prophet) menstruated, the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) asked her to tie a waist wrapper (over her body) and then husband lay with her, or he (Shu’bah) said:embraced her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When I menstruated, I left the bed and lay on the reed-mat and did not approach or come near the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) until we were purified (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated One of the Wives of the Prophet: Ikrimah reported on the authority of one of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) saying: When the Prophet (ﷺ) wanted to do something (i.e. kissing, embracing) with (his) menstruating wife, he would put a garment on her private part (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Zuhair through a different chain of narrators, to the same effect. He said:When the menstruation begins, you should abandon prayer; when the period equal to its length of time passes, you should wash away the blood and pray (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been transmitted through a different chain of narrators. According to this version. 'Aishah said:She would wash herself for every prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:Umm Habibah had a prolonged flow of blood for seven years. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded her to take bath; so she used to take bath for every prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Fatimah daughter of AbuHubaysh came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and narrated what happened with her. He said: Then take a bath and then perform ablution for every prayer and pray (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said about the woman who has a prolonged flow of blood:She should take bath, i.e. only once; then she should perform ablution until he next menstrual period (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The woman who has a prolonged flow of blood should wash herself every day when her menstrual period is over and take a woollen cloth greased with fat or oil (to tie over the private parts) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Muhammad b. 'Uthman asked al-Qasim b. Muhammad about the woman who has a prolonged flow of blood. He replied:She should abandon prayer during her menstrual period, then wash and pray ; then she should wash during her menstrual period (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Umm 'Atiyyah who took an oath of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) said:We would not take into consideration brown and yellow (fluid) after purification (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Umm 'Atiyyah has narrated this tradition through a different chain of transmitters. Abu DAwud said:The name of Umm al-Hudhail is Hafsah daughter os Sirin. The name of her son was Hudhail and his husband 'Abd al-Rahman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ikrimah reported Hamnah daughter of Jahsh as saying that her husband would have intercourse with her during the period she had a flow of blood (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: The woman having bleeding after delivery (puerperal haemorrhage) would refrain (from prayer) for forty days or forty nights; and we would anoint our faces with an aromatic herb called wars to remove dark spots (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ammar b. Yasir said:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about tayammum. He commanded me to strike only one stroke (i.e. the strike the ground) for (wiping) the face and the hands (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aban said:Qatadah was asked about tayammum during a journey. He said: A traditionist reported to me from al-Sha'bi from 'Abd al-Rahman b. Abza on the authority of 'Ammar b. Yasir who reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: (He should wipe) up to the elbows (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ata b. Yasar said:Two persons from the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ); he then narrated the rest of the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Taking bath on Friday is necessary for every adult (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aws al-Thaqafi reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone washes his head on Friday and washes himself; and he narrated the rest of the tradition as above (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) would take a bath because of sexual defilement on Friday, after opening a vein and after washing a dead body (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Makhul was asked about the meaning of words ghassala and ightasala (that occur in tradition 345) and he said:one should was one's head and body well (and not than one should makes one's wife wash) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Explaining the meaning of the words ghassala and ightasala (that occur in tradition 345) Sa'id (b. 'Abd al-'Aziz) said:One should wash one's head and body well (And not that one should make one's wife wash) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The people (mostly) were workers and they would come for Friday prayer in the same condition, so it was said to them: If only you were to perform Ghusl (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah: If any one of you performs ablution (on Friday) that is all right; and if any of you takes a bath, that is better (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qays ibn Asim: I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with the intention of embracing Islam. He commanded me to take a bath with water (boiled with) the leaves of the lote-tree (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:Each of us (wives of the Prophet) had only one clothe in which she would menstruate. Whenever it was smeared with blood, she would moisten it with her saliva and scratch it with saliva (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been transmitted by Hisham through a different chain of narrators to the same effect:Rub it off (with a stone), and then scratch it (with finger) by pouring water, then sprinkle water upon it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Qays daughter of Mihsan: I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the blood of menstruation on the clothe. He said: Erase it off with a piece of wood and then wash it away with water and the leaves of the lote-tree (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:One of us would have a shirt in which she would menstruate and in it she became sexually defiled. Then if she ever saw any drop of blood in it, she would rub it off by applying her saliva (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Habibah: Mu'awiyah ibn AbuSufyan asked his sister Umm Habibah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ): Would the apostle of Allah (ﷺ) pray in the clothe in which he had an intercourse? She said: Yes, when he would not see any impurity in it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not pray in our wrappers or in our quilts. Ubaydullah said: My father (Mu'adh) doubted this (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Maimunah reported:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed on a sheet of cloth put on by one of his wives who was menstruating. He was praying while (a part of) it was upon him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would pray at night while I lay by his side during my menstrual period. A sheet of cloth would be partly on me and partly on him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah reported:I used to rub off the semen from the clothe of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He would would pray in it. Abu Dawud said: Mughirah, Abu Ma'shar, and Wasil also narrated it to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sulaiman b. Yasar reported:I heard 'Aishah say that she would wash semen from the clothe of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). She added: Then I would see a mark or marks (after washing) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The urine of a female (child) should be washed and the urine of a male (child) should be sprinkled over until the age of eating (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:I used to sleep in the mosque in the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when I was young and bachelor. The dogs would urinate frequently visit the mosque, and no one would sprinkle over it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When any one of you treads with his sandal upon an unclean place, the earth will render it purified (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the tradition to the same effect from the Prophet (ﷺ):When any of you treads with his shoes upon something unclean, they will be purified with the earth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah reported a similar tradition from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuNadrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spat on his clothe and scrubbed with a part of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been narrated by Anas from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been reported by Abu Suhail Nafi' b. Malik b. Abi 'Amir through a different chain of narrators. It adds:He will be successful, by his father, if he speaks the truth; he will enter Paradise, by his father, if he speaks the truth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The extent of the shadow when the Messenger of Allah prayed (the noon prayer) was three to five feet in summer and five to seven feet in winter (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When the heat is violent, offer (the Zuhr) prayer when it becomes fairly cool, for the violent heat comes from the bubbling over the Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah reported that Bilal used to call for the noon prayer when the sun had declined (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the 'Asr prayer when the sun was high and bright and living, then one would go off to al-'Awali and get there while the sun was still high (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Zuhri said:Al-'Awali is situated at a distance of two miles or three (from Medina). He (the narrator) said: I think he said: or four miles (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Khaythamah said:By the life of the sun is meant that you may find heat in it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would offer the Zuhr prayer while the sunlight was present in her apartment before it ascended (the walls) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn Shayban: We came upon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in Medina. He would postpone the afternoon prayer as long as the sun remained white and clear (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ali (may Allah be pleased with him) reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying on the day of Battle of Khandaq (Trench). They (the unbelievers) prevented us from offering the middle prayer i.e. 'Asr prayer. May Allah fill their houses and their graves with Hell-fire (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone says a rak'ah of the 'Asr prayer before sunset, he has observed (the 'Asr prayer), and if anyone performs a rak'ah of the Fajr prayer, he has observed (the Fajr prayer) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Awza'i said:Delaying the 'Asr prayer means that the sunshine becomes yellow on the earth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:We used to offer the Maghrib prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then shoot arrows, one of us could see the place where arrow would fall (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Salamah b. al-Akwa' said:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say the Maghrib prayer immediately after the sun had set when its upper side would disappear (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Bashir: I am the one who is best informed of the time of this prayer, i.e. the night prayer. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to offer it at the hour when the moon went down on its third night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would say the Fajr prayer after which the women would depart wrapped up their woolen garments, being unrecognizable because of the darkness before dawn (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Rafi' b. Khadij reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Offer Fajr prayer at dawn, for it is most productive of rewards to you or most productive of reward (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Farwah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked: Which of the actions is best? He replied: Observing prayer early in its period. Al-Khuza'i narrated in his version from his aunt named Umm Farwah who took the oath of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ): He was questioned (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qabisah ibn Waqqas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: After me you will be ruled by rulers who will delay the prayer and it will be to your credit but to their discredit. So pray with them so long as they pray facing the qiblah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been transmitted through a different chain by Abu Qatadah to the same effect. This version adds:"He performed ablution when the sun had arisen high and led them in prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Qatadah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:There is no remissness in sleep, it is only when one is awake that there is remissness when you delay saying the prayer till the time for the next prayer comes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:If any one forgets a prayer or oversleeps, he should observe it when he remembers it ; there is no expiation for it except that (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted through another chain of narrators by Dhu Mikhbar, the nephew of the Negus. This version adds:"He (Bilal) called for prayer unhurriedly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: I was not commanded to build high mosques. Ibn Abbas said: You will certainly adorn them as the Jews and Christians did (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Last Hour will not come until people vie with one another about mosques (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uthman ibn Abul'As: The Prophet (nay peace be upon him) commanded him to build a mosque at Ta'if where the idols were placed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to build mosques in different localities (i.e. in the locality of each tribe separately) and that they should be kept clean and be perfumed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Samurah reported that he wrote (a letter) to his sons:After (praising Allah and blessing the Prophet) that: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to command us to build mosques in our localities and keep them well and clean (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Salih said:It was said that when a man removed gravels from the mosque, they adjured him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported (Abu Bakr said that in his opinion he narrated this tradition from the Prophet):The gravels adjure the person when removes them from the mosque (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been reported by 'Umar b. al-Khattab through a different chain of narrators. He narrated it to the same effect and that is more correct (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi said :‘Umar b. al-Khattab used to prohibit (men) to enter through the door reserved for women (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Qatadah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying; when any one of you enters the mosque, he should pray two RAKAHS before sitting down (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been narrated by Abu Qatadah through a different chain of transmitters to the same effect from the prophet (ﷺ). This version adds:then he may remain sitting (after praying two RAKAHS) or may go for his work (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying; one is considered to be at prayer so long as one is detained by prayer:Nothing prevents one from going home to one’s family except prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying; one shall have the thing the for which one comes to the mosque (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying; if anyone hears a man crying out in the mosque about something he has lost, he should say: May Allah not restore it to you, for the mosque were not built for this (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as saying:Spitting in the mosque is a sin and it is expiated by burying the spittle (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Spitting in the mosque is a sin and it is expiated by burying the spittle (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: Spitting phlegm in the mosque... The narrator then transmitted the rest of the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: if anyone enters the mosque, and spits in it, or ejects phlegm, he should remove some earth and bury it there. If he does not do so, then he should spit in his clothes and not come out with it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-‘Ala’ reported on the authority of his father:I came to the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) who was saying prayer. He spat beneath his left foot (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-‘Ala’ reported this tradition on the authority of his father to the same effect with a different chain of narrators. This version adds:“He then rubbed it with his shoe (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wathilah ibn al-Asqa': AbuSa'id said: I saw Wathilah ibn al-Asqa' in the mosque of Damascus. He spat at the mat and then rubbed it with his foot. He was asked: Why did you do so? He said: Because I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The Jews came to the Prophet (May peace be upon him) and he was sitting in the mosque among his Companions. They said: O Abu al-Qasim, a man and a woman have committed adultery (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The earth has been made for me purifying and as a mosque (place for prayer) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Salih narrated this tradition with a different chain of transmitters to the same effect as reported by Sulaiman b. Dawud. But this version has the word KHARAJA (he went out) instead of BARAZA (proceeded) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'id: and the narrator Musa said: As far as Amr thinks, the Prophet (ﷺ) said: The whole earth is a place of prayer except public baths and graveyards (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated As-Saburah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Command a boy to pray when he reaches the age of seven years. When he becomes ten years old, then beat him for prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Command your children to pray when they become seven years old, and beat them for it (prayer) when they become ten years old; and arrange their beds (to sleep) separately (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported; Bilal was commanded to pronounce Adhan in double pairs and IQAMAH in single pairs. Hammam added in his version; “except IQAMAH” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported the tradition like that of Wuhaib. Ismail said:I narrated this tradition to Ayyub who said: “Except IQAMAH” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been narrated by Abu Ja’far, the mu’adhdhin of ‘Uryan mosque (at Kufah), from Abu al-Muthanna, the mu’adhdhin of masjid al-akbar (at kufah) on the authority of Ibn ‘Umar. The rest of the tradition was transmitted in a like manner (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted through a different chain of narrators by ‘abd Allah b. Zaid. He said:My grandfather pronounced the Iqamah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The imam is responsible and the mu'adhdhin is trusted, O Allah, guide the imams and forgive the mu'adhdhins (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted through a different chain of narrators by Abu Hurairah who reported it in a similar manner from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The supplication made between the adhan and the iqamah is not rejected (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id al-Khudri reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :When you hear the Adhan, you should repeat the same words as the mu’adhdhin pronounces (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: A man said: Messenger of Allah, the mu'adhdhins excel us. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Say (the same words) as they say, and when you come to the end, make a petition and that will be granted to you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) heard the MU’ADHDHIN uttering the testimony, he would say:“And I too, and I too” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUmamah, or one of the Companion of the Prophet: Bilal began the Iqamah, and when he said: "The time for prayer has come," the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "May Allah establish it and cause it to continue (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) taught me to say when the adhan for the sunset prayer was called; "O Allah, this is the time when Thy night comes on, Thy day retires, and the voices of Thy summoners are heard, so forgive me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uthman ibn Abul'As: Messenger of Allah, appoint me the leader of the tribe in prayer. He said: You are their leader, but you should follow on who is the weakest of them: and appoint a mu'adhdhin who does not charge for the calling of adhan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Bilal: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to Bilal: Do not call adhan until the dawn appears clearly to you in this way, stretching his hand in latitude. Abu Dawud said: Shaddad did not see Bilal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah reported:Ibn Umm Maktum was the mu'adhdhin of the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) and he was blind (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-Sha’tha said :we were sitting with Abu Hurairah in the mosque. A man went out of the mosque after the ADHAN for the afternoon prayer had been called. Abu Hurairah said: As regards this (man), he disobeyed Abu al-Qasim, the prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah said:Bilal would call the Adhan, then he used come to wait. When he would see that the prophet (ﷺ) had come out (of his house), he would pronounce the iqama (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: Mujahid reported: I was in the company of Ibn Umar. A person invited the people for the noon or afternoon prayer (after the adhan had been called). He said: Go out with us (from this mosque) because this is an innovation (in religion) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported:when the Iqamah was pronounced for prayer during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), the people would take their seats before the prophet (ﷺ) came to his seat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported :the Iqamah was pronounced (for the night prayer) and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) remained engaged in talking (to a person) in the corner of the mosque. He did not begin prayer until the people slept (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-Nadr said:when the Iqamah was pronounced and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw that they (the people) were small in number, he would sit down, nd would not pray; but when he saw them (the people) large in number, he would pray (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been transmitted through a different chain of narrators in a similar way by ‘Ali b. Abi Talib (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: If anyone hears him who makes the call to prayer and is not prevented from joining the congregation by any excuse--he was asked what an excuse consisted of and replied that it was fear or illness--the prayer he offers will not be accepted from him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The further one is from the mosque , the greater will be one's reward (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraydah ibn al-Hasib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Give good tidings to those who walk to the mosques in darkness for having a perfect light on the Day of Judgment (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: Do not prevent the female servants of Allah from visiting the mosques of Allah, but they may go out (to the mosque) having no perfumed themselves (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying; Do not prevent the female servant your women from visiting the mosques of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying; Do not prevent your women from visiting the mosque; but their houses are better for them (for praying) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah (b. Mas’ud) reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying; it is more excellent for a woman to pray in her house than in her courtyard, and more excellent for her to pray in her private chamber than in her house (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'id al-Khudri: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a person praying alone. He said: Is there any man who may do good with this (man) and pray along with him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Yazid reported on the authority of his father:I said the morning prayer along with the prophet (ﷺ) at Mina. He narrated the rest of the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: Sulayman, the freed slave of Maymunah, said: I came to Ibn Umar at Bilat (a place in Medina) while the people were praying. I said: Do you not pray along with them? He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Do not say a prayer twice in a day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sulamah daughter of al-Hurr: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: One of the signs of the Last Hour will be that people in a mosque will refuse to act as imam and will not find an imam to lead them in prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The version of this tradition narrated through a different chain by Shu’bah has the words:“A man should not lead the another man in prayer. Abu Dawud said: Yahya al-Qattan narrated from Shu’bah in a similar way, i.e. the earliest of them in recitation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted through a different chain by ‘Amr b. Salamah. This version says:“I used to lead them in prayer with a sheet of cloth on me that was patched and torn. When I prostrated myself, my buttocks were disclosed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: Let the best among you call the adhan for you, and the Qur'an-readers act as your imams (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as saying:The obligatory prayer is essential behind every Muslim, pious or impious, even if he has committed a sins (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said that the Prophet (ﷺ) appointed Ibn Umm Maktum as substitute to lead the people in prayer, and he was blind (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah said :Mu’adh b. Jabal would pray along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)in the night prayer, then go and lead his people and lead them in the same prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah said :Mu’adh b. Jabal would pray along the prophet (ﷺ), then go and lead his people in prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said :when the prophet (ﷺ) became seriously ill, we prayed behind him while he was sitting and Abu Bakr was calling “Allah is most great “ to cause the people to hear the TAKBIR. Then he (the narrators) narrated the rest of the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led him and one of their women in prayer. He (the prophet) put him on his right side and the woman behind him (Anas) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Another version of this tradition transmitted through a different chain of narrators by Ibn ‘Abbas says:“He took my head or the hair of my head and made me stand on his right side” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Yazid ibn al-Aswad: Jabir ibn Yazid ibn al-Aswad reported on the authority of his father: I prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). When he finished the prayer, he would turn (his face from the direction of the Ka'bah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: When we would pray behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), we liked to be on his right side. He (the Prophet) would sit turning his face towards us (and back towards the Ka'bah) (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The key of prayer is purification; takbir (saying "Allah is most great") makes (all acts which break prayer) unlawful and taslim (uttering the salutation) makes (all such acts) lawful (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah ibn AbuSufyan: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not try to outstrip me in bowing and prostrating because however earlier I bow you will join me when I raise (my head from bowing); I have become bulky (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Bara who is not a liar said; when they (the companions) raised their heads from bowing along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), they would stand up, and when they saw him that he went down in prostration, they would prostrate (following the prophet) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Bara b.‘Azib said ; we used to pray along with the prophet (ﷺ); none of us bowed his back until he saw that the prophet (ﷺ) bowed (his back) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying; Does he who raises his head while the Imam is prostrating not fear that Allah may change his head into a donkey’s or his face into a donkey’s face (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:The prophet (ﷺ) persuaded them to say prayer in congregation and prohibited them to leave before he goes away from the prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said; The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked shout the validity of prayer in a single garment. The prophet (ﷺ) said:Does every one of you has two garment? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should pray in a single garment of which no part comes over the shoulders (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:if anyone prays in a single piece of cloth, he should cross the two ends (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Umar b. Abu Salamah said :I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying girded with a single (piece of) cloth, place its two ends over his shoulders (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl b. Sa’d said:I saw the people tying their wrappers over their necks like children due to the narrowness of the wrappers behind the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) during prayer. Someone said: Body of women, do not raise your heads until the men raise (their heads) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said; the prophet (ﷺ) prayed in a single (piece of) cloth whose one part was upon me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salamah ibn al-Akwa': I said: Messenger of Allah, I am a man who goes out hunting; may I pray in a single shirt? He replied: Yes, but fasten it even if it should be with a thorn (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd al-rahman b. Abu Bakr reported on the authority of his father Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah led us in prayer in a single shirt, having no sheet upon him. When he finished the prayer he said:I witnesses the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying in a shirt (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraydah ibn al-Hasib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited us to pray in a sheet of cloth without crossing both its ends, and he also prohibited us to pray in a wrapper without putting on a sheet (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: He who lets his garment trail during prayer out of pride, Allah, the Almighty, has nothing to do with pardoning him and protecting him from Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Zaid b. Qunfudh said that his mother asked Umm Salamah :In how many clothes should a woman pray? She replied; she would pray wearing a veil and a long shirt which covers the surface of her feet (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Juraij said; I often saw ‘Ata praying while letting his garment trail. Abu Dawud said:This (practice of ‘Ata’) weakens the tradition (narrated by Abu Hurairah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said; The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not pray on our sheets of cloth or on our quits. ‘Ubaid allah said:My father doubted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn as-Sa'ib: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying on the day of the conquest of Mecca and he had placed his shoe at his left side (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted through a chain by Bakr b. ‘Abd Allah. This version has the word Khubuth (filth) and in two places the word Khubuthan (filth) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aws ibn Thabit al-Ansari: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Act differently from the Jews, for they do not pray in their sandals or their shoes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying both barefooted and wearing sandals (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When any of you prays, he should not place his sandals on his right side or on his left so as to be on the right side of someone else, unless no one is at his left, but should place them between his feet (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:when any of you prays and takes off his sandals, he should not harm anyone by them. He should place them between his feet or pray with them on (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Maimunah bint al-Harith reported :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray while. I was by his side in the state of menstruation. Sometime his cloth would touch me when he prostrated. He would pray on a small mat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said; the prophet (ﷺ) used to visit Umm Sulaim. Sometimes the time for prayer would come and he would pray on out carpet that was really a mat. She (Umm Sulaim) used to wash it with water (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughirah ibn Shu'bah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray on a mat and on a tanned skin (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:we used to pray along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in intense heat. When any of us could not rest his face on bare ground while prostrating due to intense heat he spread his cloth and would prostrate on it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pass through the row from one side to the other; he used to set out chests and shoulders in order, and say: Do not be irregular. And he would say: Allah and His angels bless those who are near the first rows (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Bashir: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to straighten our rows when we stood up to pray, and when we were straight, he said: Allah is most great (takbir) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Stand close together in your rows, bring them near one another, and stand neck to neck, for by Him in Whose hand my soul is, I see the devil coming in through openings in the row just like a small black sheep (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :Straighten your rows for the straightening of the rows is part of perfecting the prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Muhammad b. Muslim b. al-Sa’ib said:one day I prayed by the side of Anas b. Malik. He said ; Do you know why this stick is placed here ? I said : No, by Allah. He said; The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to put his hand upon it and say: Keep straight and straighten your rows (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Complete the front row, then the one that comes next, and if there is any incompleteness, let it be in the last row (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The best of you are those whose shoulders are soft in prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Ma’sud reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:let those of your who are sedate and prudent be near me, then those who are next to them, then those who are next to them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by ‘Abd Allah (b. Mas’ud) through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:“Do not be irregular, so have your hearts irregular, and beware of tumult such as found in market” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Allah and His angels bless those who are on the right flanks of the rows (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:the best of the men’s row is the first and the worst of them is the last, but the best of the women’s rows is the last and the worst of them is the first (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying the people will continue to keep themselves away from the front row until Allah will keep them away (from the front) in the Hell-fire (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Have the imam in the centre and close up the gaps (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wabisah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a man praying alone behind the row. He ordered him to repeat. Sulayman ibn Harb said: The prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Bakrah said that he came to the mosque when the prophet (ﷺ) was bowing. So I bowed outside the row (before joining it). The prophet (ﷺ) said; May Allah increase your eagerness! But do not do it again (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Talhah b. 'Ubaid Allah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When you place in front of you something such as the back of a saddle, then there is no harm if someone passes in front of you (i.e. the other side of it) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ata said:The back of the saddle is (about) one cubit (in height) or more than that (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Juhaifah said:The Prophet (ﷺ) led them in prayer at al-Batha', with a staff set up in front of him. (He prayed) two rak'ahs of the Zuhr prayer and two rak'ahs of the 'Asr prayer. The women and the donkeys would pass in front of the staff (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you prays, he should put something in front of his face, and if he can find nothing , he should set up his staff; but if he has no staff, he should draw a line; then what passes in front of him will not harm him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sufyan b. 'Uyainah said:I saw Sharik who led us in the 'Asr prayer during a funeral ceremony. He placed his cap in front of him, that is, for saying the obligatory prayer the time of which had come (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray facing his camel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdad ibn al-Aswad: I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying in front of a stick, a pillar, or a tree, without having it opposite his right or left eyebrow, and not facing it directly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not pray behind a sleeping or a talking person (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl said:The distance between the place where the Prophet (ﷺ) stood and the qiblah (i.e. the sutrah or the wall of the mosque) was as much as to allow a goat to pass (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When one of you prays, he should not let anyone pass in front of him; he should turn him away as far as possible; but if he refuses (to go), he should fight him, for he is only a devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When one of you prays, he should pray facing the sutrah (screen or covering) and he should keep himself close to it. He then narrated the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Yazid b. Namran said:I saw a crippled man at Tabuk. He (the man) said: I passed riding a donkey in front of the Prophet(ﷺ) who was praying. He said (cursing him): O Allah, cut off his walking. Thenceforth I could not walk (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition as also been reported by Sa’id through the same chain of narrators and to the same effect. He added:He cut off our prayer, may Allah cut off his walking. Abu Dawud said: This version narrated by Mushir on the authority of Sa’id has: He cut off our prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said:The Prophet (ﷺ) was (once) praying. A kid went passing in front of him and he kept on stopping it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said:I used to sleep with my legs in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he would offer his prayer at night (i.e. tahajjud prayer offered towards the end of the night.). When he prostrated himself he struck my legs, and I drew them up and he then prostrated (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Nothing interrupt prayer, but repulse as much as you can anyone who passes in front of you, for he is just a devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Wa’il b.Hujr said:He saw that when the Prophet(ﷺ) stood up to pray he raised his hands till they were in front of his shoulders and placed his thumbs opposite his ears; then he uttered the Takbir (Allah is most great) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Wa’il b.Hujr said that he saw the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) raise his hands when he uttered the takbir (Allah is most great) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wa'il ibn Hujr: I witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) raise his hands in front of his ears when he began to pray. I then came back and saw them (the people) raising their hands up to their chest when they began to pray. They wore long caps and blankets (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Wa’il b. Hujr said:I came to the Prophet(ﷺ) during winter; I saw his companions raise their hands in their clothes in prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been reported by Muhammad b. ‘Amr b. ‘Ata’ through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:“When he prostrated himself he neither placed his arms on the ground nor closed them; putting forward his fingers towards the qiblah.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wa'il ibn Hujr: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raising his thumbs in prayer up to the lobes of his ears (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood at the end of two rak’ahs, he uttered the takbir (Allah is most great) and raised his hands (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Malik b. al-Huwairith said:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) raise his hands when he uttered the takbir (Allah is most great), when he bowed and when he raised his head after bowing until he brought them to the lobes of his ears (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: If I were in front of the Prophet (ﷺ), I would see his armpits. Ibn Mu'adh added that Lahiq said: Do you not see, AbuHurayrah could not stand in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was praying. Musa added: When he uttered the takbir, he raised his hands (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Sufyan through a different chain of narrators. This version has:He raised his hands once in the beginning. Some narrated: (raised his hands) once only (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) began prayer, he raised his hands up to his ears, then he did not repeat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: I saw that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raised his hands when he began prayer, but he did not raise them until he finished (prayer). Abu Dawud said: This tradition is not sound (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) began his prayer, he raised his hands extensively (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Zur’ah b. ‘Abd al-Rahman said:I heard Ibn al-Zubair say: Setting the feet right and placing one hand on the other is a sunnah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: AbuUthman an-Nahdi said: When Ibn Mas'ud prayed he placed his left hand on the right. The Prophet (ﷺ) saw him and placed his right hand on his left one (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: AbuJuhayfah said: Ali said that it is a sunnah to place one hand on the other in prayer below the navel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: (The established way of folding hands is) to hold the hands by the hands in prayer below the navel. Abu Dawud said: I heard Ahmad b. Hanbal say: The narrator 'Abd al-Rahman b. Ishaq al-Kufi is weak (i.e. not reliable) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Tawus: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to place his right hand on his left hand, then he folded them strictly on his chest in prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Shu’aib b. Abi Hamzah said:Ibn al-Munkadir, Ibn Abi Farwah and a number of jurists of Madina said to me: When you recite the supplication “I am first of the Muslims,” say instead; “I am one of the Muslims” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been reported by Jubair b. Mut’im through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:I head the Prophet(ﷺ) uttering (all these supplications) in a supererogatory prayer; he narrated the tradition in a similar manner (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has been reported by ‘Ikramah with a different chain of narrators. This version adds:When he stood up, he said the takbir (Allah is most great) and said (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Malik said:There is no harm in uttering supplication in prayer, in its beginning, in its middle, and in the end, in obligatory prayer or other (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say in his tahajjud prayer(i.e. supererogatory prayer offered in or after the midnight) after he said the takbir; he then narrated the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Samurah b. Jundub said:The Prophet(ﷺ) had two periods of silence; when he began his prayer and when he finished the recitation (of the Qur’an). He then narrated the tradition like the version of Yunus (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Anas said:The Prophet(peace be upon hm), Abu Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthman used to begin the recitation with “Praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Universe.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Abbas said:The prophet (ﷺ) did not distinguish between the two surahs until the words “In the name of Allah, the Compassionate, the merciful” was revealed to him. These are the words of Ibn al-sarh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Qatadah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:I stand up to pray and intend to prolong it; but when I hear the cry of a boy I shorten if for fear that his mother might be distressed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hazm b. Ubayy b. Ka’b said that he came to mu’adh b. jabal who was leading the people in the sunset prayer. According to this version, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:O mu’adh, do not become a trouble , because the aged, the weak, the needy and the traveler pray behind you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying:When one of you leads the people in prayer, he should be brief, for among them are the weak, the sick, and the aged. But when one of you prays by himself, he may pray as long as he likes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying:when one of you leads the people in prayer, he should be brief, for among them are the sick, the aged and the needy (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Ammar b. Yasir said:I heard the apostle of Allah (ﷺ) say: A man returns after saying his prayer while a tenth part of his prayer, or a ninth part, or an eight part, or a seventh part, or a sixth part, or a fifth part, or a third part, or half of it, is recorded for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:In every prayer there is a recitation. We make you listen what the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) made us listen, and we keep hidden from you what he kept hidden from us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Qatadah said:We thought that by this (prolonging the first rak’ah). He (the prophet) meant that the people might join the first rak’ah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Ma’mar said:We asked Khabbab: Did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recit (the Quran) in the noon and afternoon prayers? He replied: Yes. We then asked: How did you know this? He said: By the shaking of his beard, may peace be upon him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. Abl Awfa said:The prophet (ﷺ) used to stand in the rak’ah of prayer so much so that no sound of steps heard (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Samurah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the noon and afternoon prayer: "By the Heaven and the Morning Star" (Surah 86) and "By the Heaven , holding mansions of the stars" (Surah 85) and similar surahs of equal length (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umr said:The prophet (ﷺ) prostrated himself in the noon prayer; then he stood up and bowed, and we knew that he recited Tanzil al-sajdah(surah xxxii). Ibn ‘Isa said: No one narrated this tradition to Umayyah except Mu’tamir (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: I do not know whether the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would recite the Qur'an at the noon and afternoon prayer or not (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Um al-fadl daughter of al-Harith said:I heard Ibn’Abbas reciting wa’l-mursalat urfan(surah lxxxvii). She said; sonny you have reminded me of this surah by your recitation. Thie is the last surah which I heard the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) reciting in the sunset prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jubair b. Mut’im said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting al-Tur(surah lii) in the sunset prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
HIsham b . ‘Urwah said that his father (‘Umrah) used to recite the surahs as you recite like Wa’l-Adiyat(surah c). Abu Dawud said:This indicates that those (traditions indicating long surahs) are abrogated, and this is more sound tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Amr b. Shu’aib, on his father’s authority, quoted his grandfather as saying:There is no short or long surah in al-Mufassal which I have not heard the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) reciting when he led the people in the prescribed prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu’Uthman al-Nahdl said that he offered the sunset prayer behind Ibn mas’ud, when he recited “Say:He is Allah, the One” (Surah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Abdullah al-Juhani: A man of Juhaynah told him that he had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting "When the earth is shaken" (Surah 99) in both rak'ahs of the morning prayer. But I do not know whether he had forgotten, or whether he recited it on purpose (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Amr b. Huraith said:As if I am hearing the voice of the prophet (may peace by upon him) who would recite at the morning prayer “Oh, but I call to witness the planets, the stars which rise and set”(surah 81:) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu sa’id said:we were commanded to recite Fatihat al-kitab and whatever was convenient (from the Qur’an during the prayer) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Go out and announce in medina that prayer is not valid but the recitation of the Qur’an even though it might be fatihat al-kitab and something more (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded me to announce that prayer is not valid but with the recitation of Fatihat al-kitab and something more (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ubadah b. al-Samit reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :the prayer is not valid I one does not recite fatihat al-kitab and something more, sufyan( the narrator) said: This applies to a man who prays alone (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah said:we used to offer supererogatory prayers and recite supplications while we were standing, and would glorify Allah while bowing and prostrating (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wa'il ibn Hujr: I saw that the Prophet (ﷺ) placed his knees (on the ground) before placing his hands when he prostrated himself. And when he stood up, he raised his hands before his knees (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:when one of you prostrates himself he must not kneel in the manner of camel, but should put down his hands before his knees (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: (Does) one of you kneel down in his prayer as a camel kneels down (i.e. put his knees before his hands) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Qilabah said:Malik b. al-Huwairith saw that the prophet (may peace by upon him) would not stand at the end of the first or the third rak’ah until he sat down straight (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Tawus said:we asked Ibn ‘Abbas about sitting on heels between the two prostrations. He said: It is the sunnah. We said: We look upon it as a pressure on the foot. He said: This is the sunnah of your Prophet(ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When the Imam says: “Allah listens to him who praised Him,” say: “O Allah, our lord, to Thee be the praise, “ for if what anyone says synchronises with what the angels say, he will be forgiven his past sins (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Amir said:The people behind the imam should not say: “Allah listens to him who praises Him.” But they should say: “ Our Lord, to Thee be the praise.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say between the two prostrations: "O Allah, forgive me, have mercy on me, guide me, heal me, and provide for me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Asma' daughter of AbuBakr: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: One of you who believes in Allah and in the Last Day should not raise her head until the men raise their heads (after prostration) lest they should see the private parts of men (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Bara’ said:The prostration observed by the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ), his bowing, and his sitting between the two prostrations were nearly equal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMas'ud al-Badri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A man's prayer does not avail him unless he keeps his back steady when bowing and prostrating (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Shibl: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited to peck like a crow, and to spread (the forearms) like a wild beast, and to fix a place in the mosque like a camel which fixes its place. These are the wordings of Qutaybah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above-mentioned tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Hurairah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Tamim ad-Dari: Tamim reported this tradition from the Prophet (ﷺ) as (Hadith No 863). This version adds: Then zakat will be considered in a similar way. Then all the actions will be considered accordingly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah (b. Masud) said:When any of you bows, he should spread his arms on his thighs and clap both his palms (Placing them between the knees), as if I am seeing the variation of the fingers of the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir: When "Glorify the name of your mighty Lord" was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Use it when bowing, and when "Glorify the name of your most high Lord" was revealed, he said: Use it when prostrating yourself (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Aishah said that the prophet (ﷺ) used to say when bowing and prostrating, “All-Glorious, All-Holy, Lord of the angels and spirit (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:The nearest a servant come to his Lord is when he is prostrating himself, so make supplication often (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) often said while bowing and prostrating himself; “Glory be to Thee, O Allah, out Lord.” And “Praise be to Thee, O Allah, forgive me,” Thus interpreting the (command in the Qur’an) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The prophet (ﷺ) used to say when prostrating himself: “O Allah. Forgive me all my sins, small and great, first and last. “ the narrator Ibn al-sarh added: “open and secret.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuLayla al-Ansari: I prayed by the side of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in the supererogatory prayer and I heard him say: "I refuge in Allah from the Hell-Fire; woe to the inmates of the Hell-fire (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa’d reported that he heard his father or his uncle say ; I witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) while offering prayer. He used to stay in his bowing and his prostration as long as one uttera the words “Glory be to Allah and praise be to Him” three times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: Ibn Abbas reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: I have been commanded - according to the version of Hammad: Your Prophet (ﷺ) was commanded - to prostrate on seven (bones), and not to fold back the hair or the clothing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying :I have been commanded, and sometimes the narrator said: Your prophet (ﷺ) was commanded to prostrate on seven limbs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abbas b. ‘Abd al-Muttalib said that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:when a servant (of Allah) prostrates himself, the seven limbs, i.e, his face, his palms, his knees and his feet prostrate along with him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Both hands prostrate as the face prostrates. When one of you puts his face (on the ground) he should put his hands too (on the ground). And when he raises it, he should raise them too (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying; when you come to pray while we are prostrating ourselves, you must prostrate yourselves, and do not reckon it anything (rak’ah) he has been present at the prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu sa’ld al-Khudri said:The mark of earth was seen on the forehead and nose of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) due to the prayer in which he led the people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been transmitted by Ma’mar through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: Al-Bara' described to us (the nature of prostration). He placed his hands (palms), reclined on his knees, and raised his hips; he said: This is how the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to prostrate himself (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as saying; Adopt a moderate position when prostrating yourselves, and see that none of you stretches out his forearms(on the ground) like a dog (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Maimunah said:When the Prophet(ﷺ) prostrated himself, he kept his arms so far away from his sides that if a lamb had wanted to pass under his arms, it could have done so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) from behind. I saw the whiteness of his armpits and he kept his arms away from his sides and raised his stomach (from the ground) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ahmar ibn Jaz': When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated himself, he kept his arms far away from his sides so much so that we took pity on him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as saying:when one of you prostrates himself, he should not stretch out his forearms( on the ground) like a dog and he should join both of his thighs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) complained to the Prophet (ﷺ) about the hardship when they kept their forearms far away from their sides while prostrating. He said: Take help with the elbows (by spreading them on the ground and sticking them to the sides) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: Sa'id ibn Ziyad ibn Subayh al-Hanafi said: I prayed by the side of Ibn Umar and I put my hands on my waist. When he finished his prayer, He said: This is a cross in prayer; the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to forbid it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn ash-Shikhkhir: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying and a sound came from his breast like the rumbling of a mill owing to weeping (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Zaid b. Khalid al-Juhani reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Anyone who performs ablution and performs his ablution well, and then he offers two rak’ahs of prayers in a way that he does not forget ( anything in it), will be forgiven all his past sins (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Uqbah. B Amir al-Juhani reported the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as saying:Any one performs ablution and performs the ablution perfectly and then offers two rak’ahs of prayers concentrating on them with his heart and face but paradise will necessarily fall to his lot (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Ali, do not instruct the imam during the prayer. Abu Dawud said: The narrator Abu Ishaq heard only for traditions from al-Harith, this tradition is not one of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah, the Most High, continues to turn favourably towards a servant while he is engaged in prayer as long as he does not look to the side (by turning the neck), but if he does so, He turns away from him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said:I asked the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) about looking to the sides during prayer. He said: It is something which the devil snatches from a servant’s prayers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu sa’I al-Khudri said:The mark of earth was seen on the forehead and nose of the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) who had led the people I prayer. Abu Ali said: Abu Dawud did not recite this tradition when he recited his collection(of sunan) for the fourth time (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) assaying :What is the matter that people raise their (Upwards) in prayer. He then said sternly: They should stop doing that, otherwise their sight will be snatched away (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) once prayed with a sheet of cloth upon him. It had prints and paintings. He said: The prints of this (sheet) distracted my attention; take it to Abu Jahm and bring a blanket to me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Qatadah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was leading the people in prayer with Umamah daughter of Zainab daughter of the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) (in his lap). When he prostrated, he put her down and when he got up(after prostration) he lifted her up (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Qatadah al-Ansari said:I saw the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) leading the people in prayer with Umamah daughter of Abu al-As on his neck (shoulder). When he prostrated, he put her down. Abu Dawud said: The narrator Makhramah did not hear from his father except one tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Kill the two black things during prayer, the snake and scorpion (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was praying with his door bolted. I came and asked to have the door opened. He walked and opened the door for me. He then returned to his place for prayer. He (the narrator Urwah) mentioned that the door faced the qiblah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah(b. Mas’ud) said:We used to salute the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) while he was engaged in prayer and he would respond to our salutation, but when we returned from the Negas, we saluted him and he did not respond to us. He said : Prayer demands one’s whole attention (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Suhayb: I passed by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) who was praying. I saluted him and he returned it by making a sign. The narrator said: I do not know but that he said: He made a sign with his finger. This is the version reported by Qutaybah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as saying :There is no loss in salutation and in prayer. Abu Dawud said: According to the version of Ibn Mahdi, this tradition has been narrated by Ibn Fudail as a statement of Abu Hurairah and not as a saying of the Prophet(ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wa'il ibn Hujr: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited the verse "Nor of those who go astray" (Surah al-Fatihah, verse 7), he would say Amin; and raised his voice (while uttering this word) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Wail b, hujr said that he prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ),and he said Amin loudly and saluted at his right and left sides until I saw the whiteness of his cheek (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited the verse "Not of those with whom Thou art angry, nor of those who go astray," he would say Amin so loudly that those near him in the first row would hear it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Bilal reported that he said :Messenger of Allah, do not say Amin before me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying; Glorifying Allah applies to men and clapping applies only to women (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Isa b. Ayyub said:Clapping by women means that one should strike her left hand with the two fingers of her right hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to make a sign during prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you gets up to pray, he must not remove pebbles, for mercy is facing him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Mu’aiqib reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying ; Do not remove pebbles while you are praying; if you do it out of sheer necessity, do it only once to smooth the pebbles (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu hurairah said that the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) forbade putting hands on the waist during prayer. Abu Dawud said; The word Ikhtisar means to put one’s hands on one’s waist (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Zaid b. Arqam said ; One of us used to speak to the man standing by his side during prayer. Then the Quranic verse “ And stand up with devotion to Allah” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Imran b. Husain said :I had a fistula; so I asked the prophet (ﷺ). He said: offer prayer in standing condition; if you are unable to do so, then in sitting condition: if you are then at your side(i.e, in lying condition) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray standing at night for a long time, and used to pray sitting at night for a long time. When he prayed standing, he bowed standing, and when he prayed sitting, he bowed sitting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"A Sunnah of the prayer is that you should raise your right foot, and make your left foot lie (on the ground) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
(There is another chain) reported from Yahya who said:"I heard Al-Qasim saying: "Abdullah bin 'Abdullah informed me that he heard 'Abdullah bin 'Umar saying: "From the Sunnah of the prayer is to lay your left foot on the ground, and raise your right foot (from eng-abudawud.txt)
(There is another chain) from Yahya with his chain and similar (to the previous hadith). Abu Dawud said:Hammad bin Zaid also said (the wording): "From the Sunnah" (narrating) from Yahya just as Jarir did (from eng-abudawud.txt)
(There is another chain) from Yahya bin Sa'eed that Al-Qasim bin Muhammad saw them sitting in Tashah-hud, so he mentioned the Hadith (from eng-abudawud.txt)
It was reported from Ibrahim that he said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) would sit in the prayer, he would place his left foot horizontally - so much so that the upper-part of his foot became black (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been reported by Shu’bah through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:Bless Muhammad and Muhammad’s family as Thou didst bless Abraham (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been reported by ‘Uqbah b. ‘Amr through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:Say, O Allah, bless Muhammad, the Prophet, the unlettered, and Muhammad’s family (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When one of you finishes the last tashahhud, he should seek refuge in Allah from four things: the punishment in Hell, the punishment in the grave, the trail of life and death, and the evil of Antichrist (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: It pertains to the sunnah to utter the tashahhud quietly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. al-Zubair narrated the above mentioned tradition on the authority of his father saying:He kept his look fixed on the finger he was pointing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMalik Numayr al-Khuza'i: I saw the Prophet (peace be upon him placing his right hand on his right thigh and raising his forefinger curving it a little) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Isma’ll b. Umayyah said:I asked about a man who intertwines his fingers while he is engaged in prayer. He said that Ibn ‘Umar had said: This is the prayer of those who earn the anger of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi said:Ibn ‘Umar saw a man resting on his left hand while he was sitting during prayer. The version of Harun b. Zaid goes: He was lying on his left side. the agreed version goes: he said to him: Do not sit like this, because those who are punished sit like this (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) was in the first two rak'ahs as though he were on heated stones. The narrator Shu'bah said: We said: Till he (the Prophet) got up (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wa'il ibn Hujr: I offered prayer along with the Prophet (ﷺ). He would give the salutation to his right side (saying): Peace be upon you and the mercy of Allah and His blessings; and to his left side (saying): Peace be upon you and mercy of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) commanded us to respond to the salutation of the imam. and to love each other, and to salute each other (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said:The end of the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was known by the takbir (pronounced aloud) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Ali b. Talq reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When any of you breaks wind during prayer, he must withdraw, perform ablution, and repeat the prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Cannot any one of you (according to the version of the narrator AbdulWarith) step forward or backward or at his right or left. The version of Hammad added: during prayer; that is, in supererogatory prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Hurairah through a different chain of narrators. This version goes:he did not make two prostrations (at the end of prayer) due to forgetfulness until Allah gave him satisfaction about it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported; The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the noon prayer and he gave the salutation at the end of two rakahs. He was asked. Has the prayer been shortened ? then he offered two rakahs of the prayer and made two prostrations (at the end of it) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported; He then made two prostration on account of forgetfulness after he had given the salutation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in prayer and gave the salutation after two rakahs of prayer. He narrated this tradition like that of Ibn Sirin from Abu Hurairah. This version adds; he gave the salutation and prostrated two prostrations due to forgetfulness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) named the two prostrations of forgetfulness disgraceful for the devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Muhammad b. Muslim through a different chain of narrators. This version adds; “While he is sitting before he gives the salutation.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This traditions has also been narrated by Muhammad b. Muslim al-Zuhr through a different chain of transmitters and to the same effect. This version adds; He should perform two prostrations before giving the salutation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Ja'far: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Anyone who is in doubt in his prayer should make two prostrations after giving the salutation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Thawban: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: For each forgetfulness there are two prostrations after giving the salutation. No one except Amr (ibn Uthman) mentioned the words "from his father" (in the chain AbdurRahman ibn Jubayr ibn Nufayr from Thawban) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Imran ibn Husayn: The Prophet (ﷺ) led them in prayer and forgot something, so he made prostrations and uttered the tashahhud, then gave the salutation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Umm Salamah said; When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave the salutation, he stayed for a while. By this people thought that women should return earlier than men (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hulb (Yazid) at-Ta'i: Hulb prayed along with the Prophet (ﷺ). He used to turn to both his sides (sometimes to the left and sometimes to the right) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Offer some of your prayers in your houses, and do not make them graves (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd ibn Thabit: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The prayer a man offers in his house is more excellent than his prayer in this mosque of mine except obligatory prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Friday is divided into twelve hours. Amongst them there is an hour in which a Muslim does not ask Allah for anything but He gives it to him. So seek it in the last hour after the afternoon prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
If anyone performs ablution, doing it well, then come to the Friday prayer, listens and keeps silence, his sins between that time and the next Friday will be forgiven, with three days extra; but he who touches pebbles has caused an interruption (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Ja'd ad-Damri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who leaves the Friday prayer (continuously) for three Friday on account of slackness, Allah will print a stamp on his heart (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah, the wife of prophet(ﷺ), said:The people used to attend the Friday prayer from their houses and from the suburbs of Medina (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Usamah ibn Umayr al-Huzali: The rain was falling on the day when the Battle of Hunayn took place. The Prophet (ﷺ), therefore, commanded that the people should offer their prayer in their camps (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-Malih said:That took place on a Friday (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Usamah ibn Umayr al-Huzali: Usamah attended the Prophet (ﷺ) on the occasion of the treaty of al-Hudaybiyyah on Friday. The rain fell as little as the soles of the shoes of the people were not set. He (the Prophet) commanded them to offer Friday prayer in their dwellings (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi said:Ibn ‘Umar made the call to prayer on a cold and windy night. He then said: “Lo! Pray in the dwellings. “Afterwards he said: Whenever there was a cold or rainy day night, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to command the mu’adhdin to announce: “Lo! Pray in the dwellings.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said:We were in the company of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) during a journey. The rain fell upon us. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Anyone who wants to pray in his dwelling may pray (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Tariq ibn Shihab: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Friday prayer in congregation is a necessary duty for every Muslim, with four exceptions; a slave, a woman, a boy, and a sick person. Abu Dawud said: Tariq b. Shihab had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) but not heard anything from him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the morning prayer on Friday Surah Tanzil al-Sajdah (xxxii.) and Surah al-Dahr(lxxi) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:In the Friday prayer he would recite Surah al-Jumu’ah (lxxi) and Surah al-Munafiqunn (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited buying and selling in the mosque, announcing aloud about a lost thing, the recitation of a poem in it, and prohibited sitting in a circle (in the mosque) on Friday before the prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:When the Prophet (ﷺ) became fat, Tamim al-Dari said to him: Should I make for you pulpit, Messenger of Allah, that will bear the burden of your body ? He said: Yes. So he made a pulpit consisting of two steps (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Salamah b. al-Akwa' said:The space between the pulpit of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and the wall (of the mosque) was such that a goat could pass (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to offer the Friday prayer when the sun declined (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Salamah b. al-Akwa' reported on the authority of his father:We used to offer the Friday prayer along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and return (to our homes) while no shade of the walls was seen (at that time) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl b. Sa'd said:We had a siesta or lunch after the Friday prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa'id b. Yazid said:The call to the (Friday) prayer was made at the gate of the mosque in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he sat on the pulpit, and of Abu Bakr and 'Umar. The narrator then repeated the same tradition as reported by Yunus (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa'ib said:There was no other mu'adhdhin (pronouncer) of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) except Bilal. The narrator then reported the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa'ib said:There was no other mu'adhdhin of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He then narrated the tradition which is incomplete (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver two sermons. He would sit down when he ascended the pulpit till he (I think he meant the mu'adhdhin) finished. He would then stand up and preach, then sit down and say nothing, then stand up and preach (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to deliver the sermon standing, then he would sit down, then stand and preach standing. If anyone tells you he preached sitting, he is lying. I swear by Allah that I offered along with more than two thousand prayers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave two sermons between which he sat, recited the Quran and gave the people an exhortation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah said:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) would deliver the sermon standing, then sit down without saying anything. The narrator then reported the tradition in full (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Adi b. Hatim said:A speaker delivered a speech in the presence of the Prophet (ﷺ). He said: Anyone who obeys Allah and His Apostle, and one who disobeys them. He said: Go away, you are a bad speaker (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah said:The prayer offered by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was moderate, and the sermon given by him was (also) moderate. He would recite a few verses from the Qur'an and exhort the people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted to the same effect through a different chain of narrators by 'Umrah from her sister 'Umrah daughter of 'Abd al-Rahman who was older than her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Umarah b. Ruwaibah said that he saw Bishr b. Marwan (on the pulpit) praying on Friday (by raising his hands). 'Umarah said:May Allah reject these hands! I have seen the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the pulpit gesturing no more than this pointing with his forefinger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sahl ibn Sa'd: I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raising his hands and praying on the pulpit or otherwise. But I saw him saying (doing) this way, and he would point with his forefinger making a circle by joining the middle finger with his thumb (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ammar ibn Yasir: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to shorten the speeches (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Samurah as-Suwa'i: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not lengthen the sermon on Friday. He would say a few words (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Attend the sermon (on Friday) and sit near the imam, for a man keeps himself away until he will be left behind at the time of entering Paradise though he enters it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited to sit on hips by erecting feet, sticking them to the stomach and holding them with hands on Friday while the imam is delivering the sermon (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When you tell (your brother on Friday) to be silent while the imam is giving the sermon you are guilty of idle talk (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said:A man came (to the mosque) while the Prophet (ﷺ) was giving the (Friday) sermon. He asked: Did you pray, so-and-so? He replied: No. He (ﷺ) said: Stand and pray (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir and Abu Salih reported on the authority of Abu Hurairah:Sulaik al-Ghatafani came (to the mosque) while the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was giving the (Friday) sermon. He asked him: Did you pray something ? He said: No. He said: Offer two rak'ahs and make them short (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted through a different chain of narrators by Jabir b. 'Abd Allah. This version adds:He (the Prophet) turned to the people and said: When one of you comes (on Friday) while the imam is preaching, he should pray two rak'ahs and make them short (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When any of you dozes in the mosque (on Friday), he should change his place (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone obtains a rak'ah in the prayer (along with the imam), he has obtained the whole prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Dahhak b. Qais asked al-Nu'man b. Bashir:What did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited on Friday after reciting the Surah al-Jumu'ah (62). He replied: He used to recite, "Had the story of overwhelming event reached you ? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the Friday prayer: "Glorify the name of your most high Lord" (Surah 87) and Has the story of the overwhelming event reached you? (Surah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offered the prayer in his apartment and people were following him behind apartment (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: Nafi' said: Ibn Umar used to lengthen his prayer before the Friday prayer and would offer two rak'ahs after it in his house. He used to say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would do that (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two rak'ahs in his house after the Friday prayer. Abu Dawud said: This tradition has been transmitted in a similar way by 'Abd Allah b. Dinar from Ibn 'Umar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Bara' said:Someone presented a bow to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the 'Id (festival). So he preached leaning on it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offered the 'Id prayer without the adhan and the iqamah. AbuBakr and Umar or Uthman also did so. The narrator Yahya is doubtful about Uthman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah said:I prayed the 'Id prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) not once or twice (but many times) without the adhan and the iqamah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been narrated by Ibn Shihab through a different chain of transmitters to the same effect. This version adds:"Except the two takers pronounced at the time of the bowing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd b. 'Amr b. al-'As said:The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) said: There are seven takers in the first rak'ah and five in the second rak'ah of the prayer offered on the day of the breaking of the fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out by one road on the day of the 'Id (festival) and returned by another (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The rain fell on the day of 'Id (festival) , so the Prophet (ﷺ) led them (the people) in the 'Id prayer in the mosque (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. Zaid said:The Messenger of Allah (pbuh)prayed for rain wearing a black robe with ornamented border. The Messenger of Allah (pbuh)wanted to reverse it from bottom to top by holding the bottom. But when it was too heavy he turned it round on his shoulders (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. Zaid said:The Messenger of Allah (pbuh)went out to the place of prayer to pray for rain. When he wanted to make supplication, he faced the qiblah and turned around his cloak (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abd Allah b. Zaid al Mazini:Abd Allah b. Zaid al Mazini said: The Messenger of Allah (pbuh) went out to the place of prayer and made supplication or rain, and turned around his cloak when the faced the qiblah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umayr, the client of AbulLahm: Umayr saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying for rain at Ahjar az-Zayt near az-Zawra', standing, making supplication, praying for rain and raising his hands in front of his face, but not lifting them above his head (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (peace be upon him) was not accustomed to raise his hands in any supplication he made except when praying for rain. He would then raise them high enough so much so that the whiteness of his armpits was visible (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to make supplication for rain in this manner. he spread his hands keeping the inner side (of hands) towards the earth, so I witnessed the whiteness of his armpits (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Muhammad b. Ibrahim:A man who witnessed the Prophet (ﷺ) reported to me that he saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying at Ahjar al-Zait spreading his hands (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated The above mentioned tradition has been narrated by Anas through a different chain of transmitters:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raised his hands in front of his face and said: O Allah! Give us water. the narrator then reported then reported the tradition like the former (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abd Allah b. 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed at the solar eclipse as reported in the tradition narrated by 'Urwah from Aishah from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that he offered two rak'ahs of prayer bowing twice in each rak'ah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qabisah al Hilali:The solar eclipse took place... The narrator then narrated the tradition like that of Musa. The narrator again said: Until the stars appear (in the heaven) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A'ishah (May Allah be pleased with her):The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon on him) recited from teh Qur'an in a loud voice in the prayer at an eclipse (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:An eclipse of the sun took place. the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed along with the people. He stood up for a long time nearly equal to the recitation of Surah al Baqarah. H then bowed. The narrator then transmitted the rest of the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A'ishah (May Allah be pleased with her):There was an eclipse of the sun. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded a man who summoned: "The prayer will be held in congregation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A'ishah (May Allah be pleased with her):The sun and the moon are not eclipsed on account of anyone's death or on account of anyone's birth. So when you see that, supplicate Allah, declare His greatness, and give alms (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Asma:The Prophet (peace be upon him) used to command us to free slaves on the occasion of an eclipse (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Bashir: There was an eclipse of the sun in the time of the Prophet (ﷺ). He began to pray a series of pairs of rak'ahs enquiring about the sun (at the end of them) till it became clear (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The prayer was prescribed as consisting of two rak'ahs both when one was resident and when travelling. The prayer while travelling was left according to the original prescription and the prayer of one who was resident was enhanced (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been narrated through a different chain of transmitters by 'Abd Allah b. Abi 'Ammar who narrated it in like manner. Abu Dawud said:This has been transmitted by Abu 'Asim and Hammad b. Mas'adah as transmitted by Ibn Bakr (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Yahya b. Yazid al-Hannani:I asked Anas b. Malik about the shortening of the prayer (while travelling). He said: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out on a journey of three miles or three farsakh (the narrator Shu'bah doubted), he used to pray two rak'ahs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas b. Malik :I prayed along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) four rak'ahs at the noon prayer at Medina and two rak'ahs at the afternoon prayer in Dhu al-Hulaifah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) halted at a certain place (while on a journey), he would not leave that place till he offered the noon prayer. A man said to him: Even if in the middle of the day? He replied: Even if in the middle of the day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) combined the noon and afternoon prayers, and the sunset and night prayers at Medina without any danger and rain. He was asked: What did he intend by it ? He replied: He intended that his community might not fall into hardship (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: When the sun set at Mecca, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) combined the two prayers at Sarif (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hisham b. Sa'd:There was a distance of ten miles between them, that is, Mecca and Sarif (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been reported by 'Uqail through a different chain of narrators. He said:He would delay the evening prayer till he combined the evening and the night prayers when the twilight disappeared (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' :We went out on a journey along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He led us in the night prayer and he recited in one of the rak'ahs: "By the fig and the olive (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: I accompanied the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on eighteen journeys and I never saw him fail to pray two rak'ahs when the sun had passed the meridian before offering the noon prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:While travelling the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would pray voluntary prayer on his riding beast in whatever direction it turned; and he would observe witr prayer, but he did not offer the obligatory prayers upon it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was on a journey and wished to say voluntary prayer, he made his she-camel face the qiblah and uttered the takbir (Allah is most great), then prayed in whatever direction his mount made his face (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abd Allah b. 'Umar:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying on a donkey while he was facing Khaibar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent me on some business, and when I came to him he was praying on (the back of) his riding beast (moving) towards the east and making the prostration lower than the bowing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Ata' ibn AbuRabah asked Aisha: Can women offer prayer on a riding beast? She replied: They were not permitted to do so in hardship or comfort. Muhammad ibn Shu'ayb said: This (prohibition) applies to the obligatory prayers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stayed in Mecca seventeen days and prayed two rak'ahs (at each time of prayer) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas b. Malik :We went out from Medina to Mecca with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he prayed two rak'ahs (at each time of prayer) till we returned to Medina. We (the people) said: Did you stay there for some time ? He replied: We stayed there ten days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stayed at Tabuk twenty days; he shortened the prayer (during his stay). Abu Dawud said: No one narrates this tradition with continuous chain except Ma'mar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:Allah, the Exalted, prescribed prayer for you, through the tongue of your Prophet (ﷺ), four rak'ahs while resident, two rak'ahs while travelling and one rak'ah in time of danger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Habibah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone prays in a day and a night twelve rak'ahs voluntarily (supererogatory prayer), a house will be built from him in Paradise on account of these (rak'ahs) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abd Allah b. 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would pray two rak'ahs before and two after the noon prayer, two after the sunset prayer in his house, and two after the night prayer. He would not pray after the Friday prayer till he departed. He would then pray two rak'ahs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) never omitted four rak'ahs before the noon prayer, and two rak'ahs before the dawn prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was more particular about observing the supererogatory rak'ahs before the dawn prayer than about observing any of the other supererogatory prayers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) would pray two rak'ahs before the dawn prayer lightly so much so that I would say: Did he recite Surah al-Fatihah in them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) would recite in the two (supererogatory) rak'ahs of the dawn prayer: "Say, O unbelievers" [Surat al-Kafiroon:1] and "Say: He is Allah, the one" [Surat al-Ikhlas:] (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not omit them (the two rak'ahs before the dawn prayer) even if you are driven away by the horses (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed the two rak'ahs of the dawn prayer, he would lie down if I was asleep; in case I was awake, he would talk to me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBakrah: I came out with the Prophet (ﷺ) to offer the dawn prayer. When he passed by a sleeping man he called him for prayer or moved him with his foot. The narrator Ziyad said: This tradition has been reported to us by AbulFadl (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)as saying: When the iqamah is pronounced for prayer, no prayer is valid except the obligatory prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Habibah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone keeps on praying regularly four rak'ahs before and four after the noon prayer, he will not enter the Hell-fire. Abu Dawud said: Al-'Ala' bin Al-Harith and Sulaiman bin Musa reported it from Makhul with his chain, similarly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: May Allah show mercy to a man who prays four rak'ahs before the afternoon prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:That the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray two rak'ahs before the 'Asr prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited to offer prayer after the afternoon prayer except at the time when the sun is high up in the sky (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would offer two rak'ahs after every obligatory prayer except the dawn and the 'Asr prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Aswad and Masruq said:We bear witness that 'Aishah said: Not a day passed but the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed two rak'ahs after the 'Asr prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Dhakwan, the client of Aisha, reported on the authority of Aisha: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray after the afternoon prayer but prohibited others from it; and he would fast continuously but forbid others to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abd Allah al-Muzani:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Pray two rak'ahs before the Maghrib prayer. He then said (again): Pray two rak'ahs before the Maghrib prayer, it applies to those who wish to do so. That was because he feared that the people might treat it as sunnah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abd Allah b. Mughaffal:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Between the two adhans there is a prayer, between the two adhans there is prayer for one who desires (to offer) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUmamah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Prayer followed by a prayer with no idle talk between the two is recorded in Illiyyun (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Nu'aym ibn Hammar: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Allah, the Exalted, says: Son of Adam, do not be helpless in performing four rak'ahs for Me at the beginning of the day: I will supply what you need till the end of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi Laila:No one told us that the Prophet (ﷺ) had offered Duha prayer except Umm Hani. She said that the Prophet (ﷺ) had taken bath in her house on the day of the Conquest of Mecca and prayed eight rak'ahs. But no one saw him afterwards praying these rak'ahs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah, wife of Prophet (ﷺ):The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never offered prayer in the forenoon, but I offer it. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would give up an action, though he liked it to do, lest the people should continue it and it is prescribed for them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Simak:I asked Jabir b. Samurah: Did you sit in the company of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ? He replied: Yes, very often. He would not stand from the place he prayed the dawn prayer till the sunrise. When the sun rose, he would stand (to pray Duha) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Prayer by night and day should consist of pairs of rak'ahs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ka'b ibn Ujrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to the mosque of Banu AbdulAshhal. He prayed the sunset prayer there. When they finished the prayer, he saw them praying the supererogatory prayer after it. He said: This is the prayer to be offered in the houses (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:When the opening verses of Surah Al-muzammil was revealed, the Companions would pray as long as they would pray during Ramadan until its last verses were revealed. The period between the revelation of its opening and the last verses was one year (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Do not give up prayer at night, for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not leave it. Whenever he fell ill or lethargic, he would offer it sitting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah, wife of Prophet (ﷺ):When one of you dozes in prayer he should sleep till his sleep is gone, for when one of you prays while he is dozing, perhaps he might curse himself if he begs pardon of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: When one of you gets up by night (to pray), and falters in reciting the Qur'an (due to sleep), and he does not understand what he utters, he should sleep (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: He who misses him daily round of recital or part of it due to sleep and he recites it between the dawn and the noon prayers, will be reckoned as if he recited it at night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Any person who offers prayer at night regularly but (on a certain night) he is dominated by sleep will be given the reward of praying. His sleep will be almsgiving (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:Allah, the Exalted, would awaken the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at night. When the dawn came, he would his finish daily round of recital (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Masruq said:I asked 'Aishah about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and I said to her: At what time he prayed at night ? She said: When he heard the cock crow, he got up and prayed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:When he was with me he would sleep at dawn. By this she referred to the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hudhaifah said:When anything distressed the Prophet (ﷺ), he prayed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said (explaining the meaning) of the following Qur'anic verse "They used to sleep but little of the night" (51:17):They (the people) used to pray between the Maghrib and 'Isha. The version of Yahya adds: The verse tatajafa junubuhum also means so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: When one of you gets up at night, he should begin the prayer with two short rak'ahs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Habashi al-Khath'ami: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked: which is the best action? He replied: To stand in prayer for a long time (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet's (ﷺ) recitation was loud enough for one who was in the inner chamber to hear it when he was in the house (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Prophet's (ﷺ) recitation at night was partly in a loud voice and partly in a low voice. Abu Dawud said: The name of Abu Khalid al-Walibi is Hurmuz (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir al-Juhani: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: One who recites the Qur'an in a loud voice is like one who gives alms openly; and one who recites the Qur'an quietly is one who gives alms secretly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray ten rak'ahs during the night, and would observe the witr with one rak'ah, he then prayed two rak'ahs of the dawn prayer. Thus he prayed thirteen rak'ahs in all (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah, wife of Prophet (ﷺ):The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray eleven rak'ahs (at night, observing the witr with one rak'ahs). When he finished it (the prayer), he would lie down on his right side (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray thirteen rak'ahs during the night, observing a witr out of that with five, he did not sit during the five except the last and then gave the salutation. Abu Dawud said: Ibn Numair reported it from Hisham recently (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray thirteen rak'ahs during the night ; he then offered two light rak'ahs of prayer when he heard the call to the dawn prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above tradition has also been transmitted by Yahya b. Sa'id to the same effect. The version adds the words:"He uttered the salutation so loudly that we could hear it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Sa'id through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. Ibn Bashshar narrated the tradition like that of Yahya b. Sa'id. His version has:He uttered the salutation in a way that we could hear it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by 'Aishah through a different chain of narrators. But the tradition narrated by Hammad b. Salamah is not equal to the tradition narrated by others (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray thirteen rak'ahs during the night, observing the witr prayer with nine (or as she said). He used to pray two rak'ahs while sitting and pray two rak'ahs of the dawn prayer between the adhan and the iqamah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa'id b. Jubair said that Ibn 'Abbas told him:He (the Prophet) got up and prayed eight rak'ahs in pairs, and then observed witr with five rak'ahs and he did not sit between them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray thirteen rak'ahs, observing six rak'ahs in pairs including the two rak'ahs of dawn prayer. He would observe witr and five rak'ahs. He sat only in the last of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray thirteen rak'ahs during the night including the two rak'ahs of the dawn prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: I spent a night with my maternal aunt Maymunah. The Prophet (ﷺ) got up to pray at night. He prayed thirteen rak'ahs including two rak'ahs of the dawn prayer. I guessed that he stood in every rak'ah as long as one could recite Surah al-Muzzammil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Alqamah said:'Aishah was asked about the actions of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). Did he perform some actions exclusively on some particular days ? She said: No, he performed his actions regularly. Which of you has the strength as much as the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had ? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah: When the last ten days of Ramadan came, the Prophet (ﷺ) kept vigil and prayed during the whole night, and tied the wrapper tightly, and awakened his family (to pray during the night). Abu Dawud said: The name of Abu Ya'fur is 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Ubaid b. Nistas (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: Seek laitat al-Qadr in the last ten night of Ramadan. When nine (nights) remain (i.e. on the twenty first) , when seven (night) remain (i.e. on the twenty third), and when five (nights) remain (i.e. on the twenty fifth) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to us: Seek it (laylat al-Qadr) on the seventeenth night of Ramadan, and on the twenty first night, and on the twenty-third night. He then kept silence (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Seek lailat al-qadr in the last seven days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah b. Abi Sufyan :The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: Lailat al-qadr is the twenty-seventh night (of Ramadan) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who recites the Qur'an in a period less than three days does not understand it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A surah of the Qur'an containing thirty verses will intercede its reader till he will be forgiven. That is: "Blessed is He in Whose Hand is the sovereignty" (Surah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) taught me fifteen prostrations while reciting the Qur'an, including three in al-Mufassal and two in Surah al-Hajj. Abu Dawud said: Abu al-Darda' has reported eleven prostrations from the Prophet (ﷺ), but chain of this tradition is weak (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir: I said to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): Are there two prostrations in Surah al-Hajj? He replied: Yes; if anyone does not make two prostrations, he should not recite them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not make a prostration at any verse in al-Mufassal from the time he moved to Medina (from eng-abudawud.txt)
On the authority of Zaid bin Thabit, he said:"I recited to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (Surat) An-Najm and he did not prostrate in it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Zaid b. Thabit through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. Abu Dawud said:Zaid was imam (in a prayer) and he did not make prostration (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:We prostrated ourselves along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on account of: "When the sky is rent asunder" and "Recite in the name of Your Lord Who created (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:A prostration when reciting Sad is not one of those which are divinely commanded, but I have seen Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrate himself (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would recite to us a surah (according to the version of Ibn Numair) outside the prayer (the agreed version goes), then he would prostrate along with him, and none of us could find a place for his forehead (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated himself at night when reciting the Qur'an. He said repeatedly: My face prostrates itself to Him Who created it and brought forth its hearing and seeing by His might and power (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah is single (witr) and loves what is single, so observe the witr, you who follow the Qur'an (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been narrated by 'Abd Allah (b. Mas'ud) through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. This version adds:A bedouin said: What are you saying ? He replied: This is neither for you, nor for your companions (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:A man who lived in the desert asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the prayer at night. He made a sign with his two fingers-in this way in pairs. The witr consists of one rak'ah towards the end in night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuAyyub al-Ansari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The witr is a duty for every Muslim so if anyone wishes to observe it with five rak'ahs, he may do so; if anyone wishes to observe it with three, he may do so, and if anyone wishes to observe it with one, he may do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubayy ibn Ka'b: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe witr with (reciting) "Glorify the name of thy Lord, the most High" (Surah 87), "Say O disbelievers" (Surah 109), and "Say, He is Allah, the One, Allah, the eternally besought of all (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Muhammad reported on the authority of some of his teachers that Ubayy b. Ka'b led them in prayer during Ramadan. He used to recite the supplication (in the witr) during the second half of Ramadan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubayy ibn Ka'b: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offered salutation in the witr prayer, he said: Glorify be to the king most holy (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone oversleeps and misses the witr, or forgets it, he should pray when he remembers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:My friend (i.e. the Prophet) instructed me to observe three practices that I do not leave while traveling nor while resident, to pray two rak`ahs in the forenoon, to fast three days every month and not to sleep but after observing the witr (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:Make haste to observe the witr prayer before morning (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as suing:Make the last of your prayer at night a witr (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:By Allah, I shall offer prayer like that of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). The narrator said: Abu Hurairah used to recite the supplication in the last rak'ah of the noon, night and dawn prayers. He would supplicate for the believers and curse the disbelievers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Bara' said:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the supplication in the dawn prayer. The version of Ibn Mu'adh has the words: "sunset prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Muhammad reported:Anas b. Malik was asked whether the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had recited supplication in the dawn prayer. He replied: Yes. He was again asked whether before bowing or after bowing. He said after bowing. This version of Musaddad adds the words: "For a short period (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited the supplication for a month (in prayer) and then gave it up (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Someone who prayed with the Prophet: Muhammad ibn Sirin said: Someone who prayed the morning prayer along with the Prophet (ﷺ) narrated to me: When he raised his head after the second rak'ah, he remained standing for a short while (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Some offer prayer in your houses; do not make them graves (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. Habshi al-Khath'ami said:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked: Which of the actions is better ? He replied: Standing for long time (in prayer). He was again asked: Which alms is better ? He replied: The alms given by a man possessing small property acquired by his labour (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id ; AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When a man himself wakes at night and wakens his wife and they pray two rak'ahs together, they are recorded among the men and women who make much mention of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Uthman reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:The best among you is he who learns and teaches the Qur'an (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:One who is skilled in the Qur'an is associated with the noble, upright recording angels, and he who falters when he recites the Qur'an and finds it difficult for him will have a double reward (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:All praise be to Allah, the Lord of the Universe" (1) is the epitome or basis of the Qur'an, the epitome or basis of the Book, and the seven oft-repeated verses (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was given seven repeated long surahs, while Moses was given six, When he threw the tablets, two of them were withdrawn and four remained (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: One who was devoted to the Qur'an will be told to recite, ascend and recite carefully as he recited carefully when he was in the world, for he will reach his abode when he comes to the last verse he recites (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qatadah said:I asked Anas about the recitation of the Qur'an by the Prophet (ﷺ). He said: He used to express all the long accents clearly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. Mughaffal said:On the day of the Conquest of Mecca I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) riding his she-camel reciting Surah al-Fath repeating each verse several times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Beautify the Qur'an with your voices (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd ibn AbuWaqqas: (The narrator Qutaibah said: This tradition has been narrated by Sa'id b. Abu Sa'id in my collection): The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who does not chant the Qur'an is not one of us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Sa'd (b. Abi Waqqas) from the Prophet (ﷺ) in a similar manner through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Waki' and Ibn 'Uyainah said (explaining the meaning of taghanni):This means that the Qur'an makes a man neglect all other things, and be content with it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Allah has not listened to anything as He does to a Prophet chanting the Qur'an with a loud voice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd ibn Ubadah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: No man recites the Qur'an, then forgets it, but will meet Allah on the Day of Judgment in a maimed condition (or empty-handed, or with no excuse) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Zuhri said:These modes of reading aimed at the same point, not different in respect of lawful and unlawful (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Bashir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Supplication (du'a') is itself the worship. (He then recited:) "And your Lord said: Call on Me, I will answer you" (xI) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) liked comprehensive supplication and abandoned other kinds (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:"One of you should not say (in his supplication): O Allah, forgive me if You please, show mercy to me if You please.' Rather, be firm in your asking, for no one can force Him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:"One of you is granted an answer (to his supplication) provided he does not say: 'I prayed but I was not granted an answer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) supplicating Allah in this manner with the palms of his hands and also with their backs upwards (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salman al-Farsi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Your Lord is munificent and generous, and is ashamed to turn away empty the hands of His servant when he raises them to Him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
In another version Ibn 'Abbas said:Earnest supplication should be made like this: he raised his hand and made his palms in the direction of his face (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been transmitted in a similar manner by Ibn 'Abbas from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Yazid ibn Sa'id al-Kindi: When the Prophet (ﷺ) made supplication (to Allah) he would raise his hands and wipe his face with his hands (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has been transmitted through a different chain of narrators by Malik b. Mighwal. This verso adds:"He has asked Allah using His Greatest Name (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd ibn AbuWaqqas: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by me while I was supplicating by pointing with two fingers of mine. He said: Point with one finger; point with one finger. He then himself pointed with the forefinger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) counting the glorification of Allah on fingers. Ibn Qudamah said (in his version: "With his right hands) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:When the Prophet (ﷺ) uttered taslim, he used to say: "O Allah, You are As-Salam, and from you is As-Salam. You are blessed, O One of Magnificence and Generosity (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Thawban, the client of Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:When the Prophet (ﷺ) finished the prayer, he asked forgiveness three times and said: "O Allah ....." The narrator then narrated the tradition like that of 'Aishah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBakr as-Siddiq: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who asks pardon is not a confirmed sinner, even if he returns to his sin seventy times a day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Agharr al-Muzani said (Musaddad in his version of this tradition said that he was a Companion of the Prophet):The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: My heart is invaded by unmindfulness, and I ask Allah's pardon a hundred times in the day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: We counted that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would say a hundred times during a meeting: "My Lord, forgive me and pardon me; Thou art the Pardoning and forgiving One (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd, the client of the Prophet: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone says: "I ask pardon of Allah than Whom there is no deity, the Living, the eternal, and I turn to Him in repentance," he will be pardoned, even if he has fled in time of battle (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone continually asks pardon, Allah will appoint for him a way out of every distress, and a relief from every anxiety, and will provide for him from where he did not reckon (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl b. Hunaif reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: If anyone asks Allah for martyrdom sincerely, Allah will make him reach the ranks of martyrs even if he died on his bed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded me to recite Mu'awwidhatan (the last two surahs of the Qur'an) after every prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) liked to supplicate three times and to ask pardon (of Allah) three times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Musa al-Ash'ari through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:Be lenient to yourselves, O people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone says "I am pleased with Allah as Lord, with Islam as religion and with Muhammad (ﷺ) as Apostle" Paradise will be his due (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone invokes blessings on me once, Allah will bless him ten times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: A woman said to the Prophet (ﷺ): Invoke blessing on me as well as on my husband. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: May Allah send blessing on you and your husband (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Al-Darda' said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: When a Muslim supplicates for his absent brother the angels say: Amin, and may you receive the like (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The supplication which gets the quickest answer is that made by one distant Muslim for another (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Three supplications are answered, there being no doubt about them; that of a father, that of a traveller and that of one who has been wronged (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMusa al-Ash'ari: When the Prophet (ﷺ) feared a (group of) people, he would say: "O Allah, we make Thee our shield against them, and take refuge in Thee from their evils (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to seek refuge in Allah from five things; cowardliness, niggardliness, the evils of old age, evil thoughts, and punishment in the grave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in You from weakness, and laziness, and cowardice, and old age, and I seek refuge in You from the punishment of the grave, and I seek refuge in You from the trails of the life and death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:I used to serve the Prophet (ﷺ) and often hear him say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in You from grief and anxiety, from the hardships of debt, and from being overpowered by men (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) would supplicate with the following words:"O Allah! I seek refuge in You from the trials of the Fire, and the punishment of the Fire, and from the evils of richness and poverty (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from poverty", lack and abasement, and I seek refuge in Thee lest I cause or suffer wrong (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. 'Umar said that one of the supplications of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was:"O Allah, I seek refuge in You that Your blessings are lifted, and Your protection (of me) is changed, and in the suddenness of Your punishment, and from all Your anger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to supplicate by saying: "O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from divisiveness, hypocrisy, and evil character (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from hunger, for it is an evil bed-fellow; and I seek refuge in Thee from treachery, for it is an evil hidden trait (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from four things: Knowledge which does not profit, a heart which is not submissive, a soul which has an insatiable appetite, and a supplication which is not heard (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) would say:"O Allah, I seek refuge in You from a prayer that is of no benefit (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Farwah b. Nawfal Al-Ashja'i asked 'Aishah the Mother of the Believers, about the supplication of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). She replied:"He would say: 'O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the evil of what I have done, and from the evil of what I have not done (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Abu al-Yusr through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:"and from sorrow (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say: "O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from leprosy, madness, elephantiasis, and evil diseases (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Al Zuhri through a different chain of narrators. This version has “Abu Bakr said its due is the payment of zakat.” He used the word “a rope of a Camel” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id Al Khudri reported:That the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying No sadaqah(zakat) is payable on less than five camels, on less than five ounces of silver and on less than five camel loads(wasq) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is no zakat payable (on grain or dates) on less than five camel-loads. The wasq (one camel-load) measures sixty sa' in weight (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibrahim said The wasq contained sixty sa’s stamped with the stamp of Al Hajjaj (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to order us to pay the sadaqah (zakat) on what we prepared for trade (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: I used to wear gold ornaments. I asked: Is that a treasure (kanz), Messenger of Allah? He replied: whatever reaches a quantity on which zakat is payable is not a treasure (kanz) when the zakat is paid (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been narrated by ‘Umar bin Ya’la through a different chain of narrators, like the tradition of ring. Sufyan, a narrator, was asked How do you pay zakat on it. He said You may combine it with other (ornaments) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Mu’adh through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Suwaid bin Ghaflah reported The collector of the Prophet (ﷺ) came to us. I caught hold of his hand and read in the document that the goods were not to be combined nor were they to be separated for fear of zakat. There is no mention of milch animals in this tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who collects more sadaqah than is due is like him who refuses to pay it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib, on his father's authority, said that his grandfather reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:There is to be no collecting of sadaqah (zakat) from a distance, nor must people who own property remove it far away, and their sadaqahs are to be received in their dwelling (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated ‘Abdallah bin Umar :‘Umar bin Al Khattab gave a horse as alms in the way of Allah. He then found it being sold, and intended to buy it. So he asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about this. He said Do not buy it, and do not take back your sadaqah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: No sadaqah is due on a horse or a slave except that given at the breaking of the fast (at the end of Ramadan) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah :The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as saying No sadaqah is due from a Muslim on his slave or his horse (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated ‘Abdallah bin Umar :The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as saying A tenth is payable on what is watered by rain or rivers or brooks or from underground moisture and a twentieth on what is watered by draught camels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdallah :The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as saying A tenth is payable on what is watered by rivers and brooks or from underground moisture and a twentieth on what is watered by draught camels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Waki’ said Ba’l means the agricultural crop which grows by the rain water. Ibn Al Aswad said and Yahya, that is, Ibn Adam said I asked Abu Iyas al Asadi (about this word ba’l). He replied What is watered by rain (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Attab ibn Usayd: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded to estimate vines (for collecting zakat) as palm-trees are estimated. The zakat is to be paid in raisins as the zakat on palm trees is paid in dried dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The Above-mentioned tradition has also been narrated by Ibn Shihab through a different chain of narrators to the same effects (from eng-abudawud.txt)
AbdurRahman ibn Mas'ud said:Sahl ibn Abu Hathmah came to our gathering. He said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanding us said: When you estimate take them leaving a third, and if you do not leave or find a third, leave a quarter (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Describing the conquest of Khaybar Aisha said: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to send Abdullah ibn Rawahah to the Jews of Khaybar, and he would make an estimate of the palm trees when the fruit was in good condition before any of it was eaten (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said :The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) commanded us that the end of Ramadan when the fasting is closed sadaqah(alms) should be paid before the people went to prayer. ‘Abd Allah b. ‘Umar used to pay it one or two days before (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said :The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) prescribed as zakat payable by slave and freeman, male and female, among the muslims on closing the fast of Ramadan one sa of dried dates or one sa’ of barley. (This tradition was read out byu ‘Abd Allah b. Maslamah to Malik) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd’ Allah(b. 'Umar) said “The people then began to pay half a sa’ of wheat later on. The narrator said :'Abd Allah (b. Umar) use to pay dried dates as sadaqah one year the people of Medina lacked dried dates, hence he paid barley (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Sa’id through a different chain of narrators. This version adds :“Half a sa’ of wheat “. But this is a misunderstanding on the part of muawayah b. Hisham and of those who narrated from him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Basheer b. Yasar said that a man from the Ansar called Sahi b. abu-Hatmah told him that Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) gave one Hundred camels to him a blood-wit from among the camels of sadaqah, i.e a blood-wit for the Ansari who was killed at Khaibar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Thawban, the client of the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him), reported him as saying :If anyone guarantees me that he will not beg from people, I will guarantee him Paradise. Thawban said : I (will not beg). He never asked anyone for anything (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If one who is afflicted with poverty refers it to me, his poverty will not be brought to an end; but if one refers it to Allah, He will soon give him sufficiency, either by a speedy death or by a sufficiency which comes later (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn al-Firasi: Al-Firasi asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): May I beg, Messenger of Allah? The Prophet (ﷺ) said: No, but if there is no escape from it, beg from the upright (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Malik ibn Nadlah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Hands are of three types: Allah's hand is the upper one; the bestower's hand is the one near it; the beggar's hand is the lower one. So bestow what is surplus, and do not submit yourself to the demand of your soul (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said :The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) came upon a date on the road; he would not take it for fear of being a part of the sadaqah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) found a date and said: Were it not that I fear it may be part of the sadaqah, I would eat it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: My father sent me to the Prophet (ﷺ) to take the camels which he had given him from among those of sadaqah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Ibn Abbas through a different chain of narrators in a similar manner. This version adds :“My father exchanged them for him” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said when some meat was brought to the Prophet (SAWS), he asked What is this? He was told this is a thing (meat), which was given as sadaqah to Barirah. Thereupon, he said it is sadaqah for her and a gift to us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Buraidah said A woman came to the Messenger of Allah (SAWS) and said I gave a slave girl as sadaqah to my mother who has now died and has left that slave girl. He said your reward is sure and the inheritance has given her back to you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: During the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) we used to consider ma'un (this of daily use) lending a bucket and cooking-pot (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by ‘Ubaid bin ‘ Umair through a different chain of narrators. This version goes:A man asked: Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), what is due on camels? He replied in a similar way. This version adds "and to lend its udders.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abdallah said The bProphet (SWAS) commanded that he who plucks ten wasqs of dates from date palms should hang a bunch of dates in the mosque for the poor (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn Abu Talib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A beggar has the right though he may be riding (a horse) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been transmitted by 'Ali through a different chain of narrators in a similar manner from the Prophet(ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Nothing but Paradise must be begged for Allah's sake (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been transmitted by Ibn Ishaq through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. This version adds "have your property with you from us. We have no need of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'id al-Khudri: A man entered the mosque. The Prophet (ﷺ) commanded the people to throw their clothes as sadaqah. Thereupon they threw their clothes (as sadaqah). He then asked him to take two clothes from them. He reprimanded him and said: Take your clothe (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying The best sadaqah is that which leaves a competence ; and begin with those for whom you are responsible (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported I asked Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), What kind of sadaqah is most excellent? He replied What a man with little property can afford to give; and begin with those for whom you are responsible (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa’id reported Sa’d came to the Prophet (SWAS) and asked him Which sadaqah do you like most? He replied Water (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been narrated by Sa’d bin ‘Ubadah from the Prophet (ﷺ) in the same manner (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd ibn Ubadah: Sa'd asked: Messenger of Allah, Umm Sa'd has died; what form of sadaqah is best? He replied: Water (is best). He dug a well and said: It is for Umm Sa'd (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Musa reported The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying The faithful trustee who gives what he is commanded completely and in full with a good will, and delivers it to the one whom he was told to give it, is one of the two who gives sadaqah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying When a woman gives something her husband has earned without being commanded by him to do so, she has half his reward (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Maimunah, wife of the Probhet (ﷺ) said :I had a slave girl and I set her free. When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me, I informed him (of this). He said : May Allah give reward for it; if you had given her to your maternal uncles, it would have increased your reward (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah bin ‘Amr reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :It is sufficient sin for a man that he neglects him whom he maintains (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :Anyone who is pleased that his sustenance is expanded and his age extended should do kindness to his near relatives (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Awf: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Allah the Exalted has said: I am Compassionate, and this has been derived from mercy. I have derived its name from My name. If anyone joins it, I shall join him, and if anyone cuts it off, I shall cut him off (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been narrated by `Abd al-Rahman bin ‘Awf from the Messenger of Allah (SWAS) through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jubair bin Mut’im reported on the authority of his father:The Prophet(ﷺ) said: Anyone who cuts off relationship from his nearest relatives will not enter Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Asma, daughter of Abu Bakr, said :I said : Messenger of Allah(SAWS), I have nothing of my own except what al-Zubair (her husband) brings to me in his house: should I spend out of it? He said : Give and do not hoard so your sustenance will be hoarded (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Mulaykah reported:Aisha counted a number of indigents. AbuDawud said: The other version has: She counted a number of sadaqahs. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Give and do not calculate, so calculation will be made against you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Shu’bah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. The version goes :He said : Make it known for a year. He said this three times. He said: I do not know whether he said “for a year” or “for three years” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd ibn Khalid al-Juhani: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about a find. He said: Make it known for a year. If its seeker comes, deliver it to him, otherwise note its container and its string. Then use it; if its seeker comes, deliver it to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Iyad ibn Himar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who finds something should call one or two trusty persons as witnesses and not conceal it or cover it up; then if he finds its owner he should return it to him, otherwise it is Allah's property which He gives to whom He will (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been transmitted by ‘Amr bin Shu’aib through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:regarding the stray sheep he said : “Take it” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been narrated by ‘Amr bin Shu’aib from his father, from his grandfather, from the Prophet (SWAS) to the same effect. This version has:regarding the stray sheep he said: Take it (and keep it with you) till its seeker comes to it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn Abu Talib: Bilal ibn Yahya al-Absi said: Ali found a dinar and purchased some flour with it. The seller of the flour recognised him and returned the dinar to him. Ali took it, deducted two qirat (carat) from it, and purchased meat with it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave us licence to use (for our purpose) a stick, a rope, a whip and things of that type which a man picked up; he may benefit from them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who hides a stray camel shall pay a fine, and a like compensation with it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd al-Rahman bin `Uthman al-Taime said:The Messenger of Allah (SWAS) prohibited taking the find of pilgrims. Ibn Wahb said : One should leave the find of a pilgrim till its owner finds it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Waqid al-Laythi: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying to his wives during the Farewell Pilgrimage: This (is the pilgrimage for you); afterwards stick to the surface of the mats (i.e. should stay at home) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Huraira reported :The Messenger of Allah (SWAS) as saying : A muslim woman must not make a journey of a night unless she is accompanied by a man who is within the prohibited degrees (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (SWAS) as saying :He then reported the same tradition as mentioned above but he mentioned (in this version) the word “mail post” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn `Umr reported the Prophet (SWAS) as saying :A woman must not make a journey of three days unless she is accompanied by a man who is within the prohibited degree (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi` said :Ibn `Umr used to seat his slave girl called Safiyyah behind him(on the Camel) and thus she travelled to Makkah in his company (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Islam does not allow for failure to perform the hajj (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: Ibn Abbas recited this verse: 'It is no sin for you that you seek the bounty of your Lord', and said: The people would not trade in Mina (during the hajj), so they were commanded to trade when they proceeded from Arafat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who intends to perform hajj should hasten to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah bin `Abbas said :In the beginning when Hajj was prescribed, people used to trade during Hajj. The narrator then narrated the rest of the tradition upto the words, `season of Hajj’ (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Umar said :The Messenger of Allah (SWAS) appointed the following places for putting on Ihram : Dhul al-Hulaifah for the people of Madina, al-Juhfah for the people of Syria and al-Qarn for the people of Najd and have been told that appointed Yalamlam for the people of Yemen (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) appointed Dhat Irq as the place for putting on ihram for the people of Iraq (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) appointed al-Aqiq as the place for putting on ihram for the people of East (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:Asma daughther of 'Umais gave birth to Muhammad bin Abi Bakr at Shajarah. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded Abu Bakr to ask her to take a bath and wear ihram (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said ; I used to perfume the Messenger of Allah (SWAS) preparatory to his entering the sacred state before he put on Ihram, and preparatory to putting off Ihram before he made the circuits round the House (the Ka’bah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah (may Allah be pleased with her) said :I still seem to see the glistening of the perfume where the hair was parted on the head of the Messenger of Allah (SWAS) while he was wearing Ihram (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn `Umar said that he heard the Prophet (SWAS) say with hair matted that he raised his voice in the talbiyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn `Umar said :The Prophet (SWAS) matted his hair with honey (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sacrificed a cow for his wives at the Farewell Pilgrimage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sacrificed a cow for his wives who had performed umrah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ai’shah said :The Messenger of Allah (SWAS) once brought sheep (or goats) for sacrifice to the house (at the Ka’bah) and garlanded them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ai’shah said:The Messenger of Allah (SWAS) would send the sacrificial animals as offerings (to Makkah) from Madinah. I would twist the garlands of the sacrificial animals ; thereafter he would not abstain from anything from which a pilgrim putting on Ihram abstains (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (SWAS)saw a man driving the sacrificial camel. He said ride on it. He said this is a sacrificial camel. He again said ride on it, bother you, either the second or the third time he spoke (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-Zubair said:I asked Jabir bin `Abdallah about riding on the sacrificial camels. He said I heard The Messenger of Allah (SWAS) saying ride on them gently when you have nothing else till you find a mount (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Najiyah al-Aslami: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent sacrificial camels with him (as offering to the Ka'bah). He then said: If any one of them becomes fatigued, slaughter it, dip its shoes in its blood, and leave it for the people (to eat) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sacrificed the camels, he sacrificed thirty of them with his own hand, and then commanded me (to sacrifice them), so I sacrificed the rest of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd al Rahman bin Thabit said:The Prophet (SWAS) and his companions used to sacrifice the camel with its left leg tied and it remained standing on the rest of his legs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ziyad bin Jubair said :I was present with Ibn `Umar at Minah. He passed a man who was sacrificing his camel while it was sitting. He said make it stand and tie its leg ; thus follow the practice (sunnah) of Muhammad (SWAS) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn `Umar said this is your al-Baida’ about which you ascribe falsehood to the Messenger of Allah (SWAS). He did not raise his voice in talbiyah but from the masjid, i.e. the mosque of Dhu al-Hulaifah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the noon prayer, and then rode on his mount. When he came to the hill of al-Bayda', he raised his voice in talbiyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ai’shah said :The Messenger of Allah (SWAS) performed Hajj exclusively (without performing `Umrah in the beginning) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been narrated by Abu al-Aswad through a different chain of narrators. This version adds he who raises his voice in talbiyah for `Umrah (and wearing Ihram for it) should put off Ihram after performing `Umrah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas bin Malik said I heard the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) uttering talbiyah(labbaik) aloud for both Hajj and ‘Umrah. He was saying in a loud voice “Labbaik for ‘Umrah and Hajj, labbaik for ‘Umrah and Hajj” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: As-Subayy ibn Ma'bad said: I raised my voice in talbiyah for both of them (i.e. umrah and hajj). Thereupon Umar said: You were guided to the practice (sunnah) of your Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Abbas said that Mu'awiyah told him:do you not know that I clipped the hair of the head of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with a broad iron arrowhead at al-Marwah? Al-Hasan added in his version: "during his hajj (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said The Prophet(ﷺ) raised his voice in talbiyah for ‘Umrah and his companions for Hajj (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Dharr used to say about a person who makes the intention of Hajj but he repeal it for the ‘Umrah (that will not be valid). This cancellation of hajj for ‘Umrah was specially meant for the people who accompanied the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Bilal ibn al-Harith al-Muzani: I asked: Messenger of Allah, is the (command of) cancelling hajj meant exclusively for us, or for others too? He replied: No, this is meant exclusively for you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuRazin: A man of Banu Amir said: Messenger of Allah, my father is very old, he cannot perform hajj and umrah himself nor can be ride on a mount. He said: Perform hajj and umrah on behalf of your father (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated as-Sa'ib al-Ansari: Khalid ibn as-Sa'ib al-Ansari on his father's authority reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Gabriel came to me and commanded me to order my Companions to raise their voices in talbiyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al Fadl bin Abbas said The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) uttered talbiyah till he threw pebbles at Jamrat Al ‘Aqbah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah bin Umar said We proceeded along with the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) from Mina to ‘Arafat, some of us were uttering talbiyah and the others were shouting “Allaah is most great.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been narrated by Ya’la bin Umayyah through a different chain of narrators. This version adds The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him “Take off your tunic”. He then took it off from his head. The narrator then narrated the rest of the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Ya’la bin Umayyah through a different chain of narrators. This version adds The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) commanded him to take it off (the tunic) and to take a bath twice or thrice. The narrator then transmitted the rest of the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
It is narrated by Ya’la bin Umayyah that a man came to Prophet (ﷺ) at Ji’ranah, putting on ihram for ‘Umrah. He had a cloak on him and his beard and head had been dyed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Ibn ‘Umar from the Prophet (ﷺ) to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported that the Prophet(ﷺ) as saying A woman in the sacred state (wearing ihram) must not be veiled or wear gloves (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi' said Ibn ‘Umar felt cold and said Throw a garment over me, ‘Nafi. I threw a hooded cloak over him. Thereupon he said Are you throwing this over me when the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) has forbidden those who are in sacred state to wear it? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin:We were proceeding to Mecca along with the Prophet (ﷺ). We pasted on our foreheads the perfume known as sukk at the time of wearing ihram. When one of us perspired, it (the perfume) came down on her face. The Prophet (ﷺ) saw it but did not forbid it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said The Prophet(ﷺ) had himself cupped when he was in the sacred state(wearing ihram) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had himself cupped in his head when he was in the sacred state (wearing ihram due to a disease from which he was suffering) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had himself cupped on the surface of his foot because of a pain in it while he was in the sacred state (wearing ihram). Abu Dawud said: I heard Ahmad say: "Ibn Abi 'Arubah narrated it in Mursal form". Meaning from Qatadah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Nubaih bin Wahb through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Aban bin ‘Uthman on the authority of ‘Uthman from the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) in a similar manner. This version adds “And he should not make a betrothal” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Yazid bin Al Asamm, Maimunah’s nephew said on Maimunah’s authority The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) married me when we were not in the sacred state at Sarif (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said The Prophet(ﷺ) married Maimunah while he was in the sacred state(wearing ihram) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa’id bin Al Musayyib said There is a misunderstanding on the part of Ibn ‘Abbas about the marriage (of the Prophet) with Maimunah while he was in the sacred state (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying There are five(creatures) the killing of which is lawful in the sacred territory. The Snake, the Scorpion, the Kite, the Rat and the biting Dog (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said Zaid bin ‘Arqam do you know that the limb of a game was presented to the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) but he did not accept it. He said “We are wearing ihram”. He replied, Yes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying “Locusts are counted along with what is caught in the sea (i.e., the game of the sea).” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ka’ab said “Locusts are counted along with the game of the sea.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ka’ab bin ‘Ujrah said that the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) said to him, If you like sacrifice an animal or if you like fast three days or if you like give three sa’s of dates to six poor people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A man from the Ansar said on the authority of Ka'b ibn Ujrah that he was feeling pain in his head (due to lice); so he shaved his head. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to sacrifice a cow as offering (from eng-abudawud.txt)
It was reported from 'Abdul-Karim bin Malik Al-Jazari, from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Laila, from Ka'b bin Ujrah, regarding this incident (as narrated in on previous hadith), and he added:"Whichever of these you do, it will suffice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated al-Hajjaj ibn Amr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone breaks (a leg) or becomes lame or falls ill. He then narrated the tradition to the same effect. The narrator Salamah ibn Shabib said: Ma'mar narrated (this tradition) to us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi’ said It was Ibn ‘Umar’s habit that whenever he came to Makkah he spent the night at Dhu Tuwa in the morning he would take a bath and enter Makkah in the daytime. He used to say the Prophet (ﷺ) had done so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to come out from (Medina) by the way of Al Shajarah and enter (Makkah) by the way of Al Mu’arras (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Makkah he entered from the side of the upper end and he came out from the side of the lower end (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: was asked about a man who looks at the House (the Ka'bah) and raises his hands (for prayer). He replied: I did not find anyone doing this except the Jews. We performed hajj along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), but he did not do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said When the Prophet(ﷺ) entered Makkah he circumambulated the House(the Ka’bah) and offered two rak’ahs of prayer behind the station. That is, he did so on the day of the Conquest (of Makkah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abis bin Rabi’ah said on the authority of ‘Umar He(‘Umar) came to the (Black) Stone and said “ I know for sure that you are a stone which can neither benefit nor injure and had I not seen the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) kissing you, I would not have kissed you.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said I have not seen the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) touching anything in the House (the Ka’bah) but the two Yamani corners (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) did not give up touching the Yamani corner and the (Black) Stone in each of his circumambulations. Ibn ‘Umar used to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) performed the circumambulation at the Farewell Pilgrimage on a Camel and touched the corner(Black Stone) with a crooked stick (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Safiyyah, daughter of Shaybah: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had some rest at Mecca in the year of its Conquest, he performed circumambulation on a camel and touched the corner (black Stone) with a crooked stick in his hand. She said: I was looking at him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ya'la: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went round the House (the Ka'bah) wearing a green Yamani mantle under his right armpit with the end over his left shoulder (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Going round the House (the Ka'bah), running between as-Safa and lapidation of the pillars are meant for the remembrance of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and his Companions performed umrah from al-Ji'ranah and walked proudly with rapid strides round the House (the Ka'bah) in three circuits and walked as usual in four circuits (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi’ said Ibn ‘Umar walked proudly (ramal) from the corner (Black Stone) to the corner (Black Stone) and mentioned that the Apostle of Allaah (ﷺ) had done so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn as-Sa'ib: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say between the two corners: O Allah, bring us a blessing in this world and a blessing in the next and guard us from punishment of Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said When the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) observed the circumambulation at hajj and ‘Umrah on his arrival, he ran three circuits and walked four, then he made two prostrations (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jubayr ibn Mut'im: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not prevent anyone from going round this House (the Ka'bah) and from praying any moment he desires by day or by night. The narrator Fadl (ibn Ya'qub) said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Banu Abdu Munaf, do not stop anyone (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abdallah said “Neither the Prophet (ﷺ) nor his Companions ran between Al Safa’ and Al Marwah except once and that was his first running.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Companions of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) who accompanied him did not go round the Ka'bah till they threw pebbles at the Jamrah (pillar at Mina) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Isma’il bin Abi Khalid said I heard ‘Abd Allaah bin Abi Aufa narrated this tradition. His version added “He then came to Al Safa’ and Al Marwah and ran between them seven times and then shaved his head (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Kathir ibn Jamhan said:A man asked Abdullah ibn Umar between as-Safa and al-Marwah: AbdurRahman, I see you walking while the people are running (between as-Safa and al-Marwah)? He replied: If I walk, I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) running. I am too old (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Hafs bin Ghiyath from Ja’far with the same chain of narrators. But this version adds “Sacrifice in your dwellings.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offered the noon prayer on the 8th of Dhul-Hijjah (Yawm at-Tarwiyah) and dawn prayer on the 9th of Dhul-Hijjah (Yawm al-Arafah) in Mina (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A man from banu Damrah reported on the authority of his father or his uncle “ I saw the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) on the pulpit in ‘Arafah.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Nubayt: Nubayt had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) in Arafat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Adda' ibn Khalid ibn Hudhah said:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on 9 Dhul-Hijjah on a camel standing at the stirrups. Abu Dawud said: Ibn al-'Ala has reported this tradition from Waki' as narrated by Hammad (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Al ‘Adda bin Khalid through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Usamah said:I rode behind the Prophet(ﷺ) When the sun set Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) returned from ‘Arafah (to Al Muzdalifah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah bin ‘Umar said The apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) combined the sunset and the night prayers at Al Muzdalifah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has been transmitted by Al Zuhri through a different chain of narrators. This version adds “Each prayer with an iqamah”. Ahmad reported on the authority of Waki’ “he offered each prayer with a single iqamah.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa’id bin Jubair and ‘Abd Allah bin Malik said “We offered the sunset and the night prayers at Al Muzdalifah along with ibn ‘Umar with one iqamah.” The narrator then narrated the rest of the tradition as reported by Ibn Kathir (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Mas’ud said “ I never saw the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) observe a prayer out of its proper time except(two prayers) at Al Muzdalifah. He combined the sunset and night prayers at Al Muzdalifah and he offered the dawn prayer that day before its proper time (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abdallah reported the Apostle of Allaah (ﷺ) as saying “The whole of ‘Arafah is a place of halting, the whole of Mina is a place of sacrifice, the whole of Al Muzdalifah is a place of halting and all the passes of Makkah are a thoroughfare and a place of sacrifice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: The Arabs in the pre-Islamic period did not return from al-Muzdalifah till they saw sunlight at the mountain Thabir. The Prophet (ﷺ) opposed them and returned before the sunrise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said I was among the weak members of his family whom the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) sent ahead on the night of Al Muzdalifah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to send ahead the weak members of his family in darkness (to Mina), and command them not to throw pebbles at jamrahs until the sun rose (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Umm Salamah on the night before the day of sacrifice and she threw pebbles at the jamrah before dawn. She hastened (to Mecca) and performed the circumambulation. That day was the one the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spent with her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ata' said:A reporter reported to me about Asma' that she threw pebbles at the jamrah at night. I said: We threw pebbles (at the jamrah) at night. She said: We used to do so in the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) hastened from al-Muzdalifah with a quite demeanour and ordered them (the people) to throw small pebbles and he hastened in the valley (wadi) of Muhassir (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) halted on the day of sacrifice between the jamrahs (pillars at Mina) during hajj which he performed. He asked: Which is this day? They replied: This is the day of sacrifice. He said: This is the day of greater hajj (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:Abu Bakr sent me among those who proclaim at Mina that no polytheist should perform Hajj after this year and no naked person should go round the House (the Ka'bah), and that the day of greater Hajj is the day of sacrifice, and the greater Hajj is the Hajj (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Bakrah through a different chain of narrators. Abu Dawud said:Ibn 'Awn has mentioned his ('Abu Bakrah's) name and narrated this tradition: From 'Abd al-Rahman b. Abi Bakrah on the authority of Abu Bakrah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Harmas ibn Ziyad al-Bahili: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) addressing the people on his she-camel al-Adba', on the day of sacrifice at Mina (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Umamah:I heard the address of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at Mina on the day of sacrifice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Jurayj asked Ibn Umar:We sell the property of the people; so one of us goes to Mecca and passes the night there with the property (during the stay at Mina). He said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pass night and day at Mina (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:Al-'Abbas sought permission from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to pass the night at Mecca during the period of his stay at Mina for distributing water among the people. He gave him permission (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Uthman prayed four rak'ahs at Mina because he resolved to stay there after hajj (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibrahim: Uthman prayed four rak'ahs (at Mina) for he made it his home (for settlement) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Az-Zuhri: When Uthman placed his property at at-Ta'if and intended to settle there, he prayed four rak'ahs. The rulers after him followed the same practice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Az-Zuhri: Uthman offered complete prayer at Mina for the sake of bedouins who attended (hajj) in large numbers that year. He led the people four rak'ahs in prayer in order to teach them that the prayer (i.e. noon or afternoon prayer) essentially contained four rak'ahs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition (No 1963) has also been transmitted by Yazid ibn AbuZiyad with a different chain of narrators. This version adds the words:He (the Prophet) did not stand near it (the jamrah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi' reported on the authority of Ibn Umar. He (ibn Umar) used to come (to Mina) and threw pebbles three days after the day of sacrifice walking when arriving and returning (both ways). He reported that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) throwing pebbles on the day of sacrifice while on his riding beast and saying: Learn your rites, for I do not know whether I am likely to perform Hajj after this occasion (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir :I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) throwing pebbles on the day of sacrifice while on his riding beast in the forenoon, and next when the sun had passed the meridian (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu al-Baddah b. 'Asim b. Adi: On the authority of his father: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) permitted the herdsmen of the camel to lapidate the the jamrahs one day and omit one day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
AbuMijlaz said:I asked Ibn Abbas about a thing concerning the throwing of stones at the jamrahs. He said: I do not know whether the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) threw six or seven pebbles (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had his head shaved at the Farewell Pilgrimage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Hisham n. Hassan through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:He said to the barber: Start with the right side and shave it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Shaving is not a duty laid on women; only clipping the hair is incumbent on them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Shaving is not a duty laid on women; only clipping the hair is incumbent on them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed 'Umrah before performing Hajj (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed two umrahs: one umrah in Dhul-Qa'dah, and the other in Shawwal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Mujahid said:Ibn 'Umar was asked: How many times did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) perform 'Umrah ? He said: Twice. 'Aishah said: Ibn 'Umar knew that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed three 'Umrahs in addition to the one he combined with the Farewell Pilgrimage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stayed (at Mecca) for three days during umrah for atonement ('Umrat al-Qada) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed the obligatory circumambulation (Tawaf al-Ziyarah) on the day of the sacrifice ; he then offered the noon prayer at Mina when he returned (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin ; Abdullah Ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) postponed the circumambulation on the day of sacrifice till the night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) did not walk quickly (ramal) in the seven rounds of the last circumambulation (Tawaf al-Ifadah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The people used to go out (from Mecca after Hajj) by all sides. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: No one should leave (Mecca) until he performs the last circumambulation of the House (the Ka'bah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Tariq: AbdurRahman reported on the authority of his mother: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed any place from the house of Ya'la,--the narrator Ubaydullah forgot its name--he faced the House (the Ka'bah) and supplicated (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) alighted at al-Muhassab so that it might be easier for him to proceed (to Medina). It is not a sunnah (i.e. a rite of Hajj). Anyone who desires may alight there, and anyone who does not want may not alight (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Rafi’ said The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) did not command me to align there. But when I pitched his tent there, he alighted. The narrator Musaddad said “He (Abu Rafi’) kept watch over the luggage of the Prophet(ﷺ). The narrator ‘Uthman said That is in Al Abtah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi’ said “Ibn ‘Umar used to nap for a short while at Batha’ (i.e, Al Muhassab) and then enter Makkah.” He thought that Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) used to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said “The Prophet(ﷺ) offered noon, afternoon, evening and night prayers at Al Batha(i.e, Al Muhassab). He then napped for a short while and then entered Makkah. Ibn ‘Umar also used to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The version of Ibn ‘Abbas added “Its fresh herbage is not to be cut.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: I said: Messenger of Allah, should we not build a house or a building which shades you from the sun? He replied: No, it is a place for the one who reaches there earlier (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ya'la ibn Umayyah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Hoarding up food (to sell it at a high price) in the sacred territory is a deviation (from right to wrong) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Malik through a different chain of narrators. He (‘Abd Al Rahman bin Mahdi) did not mention the words “pillars”. This version adds “He then prayed and there was a distance of three cubits between him and the qiblah.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Ibn ‘Umar through a different chain of narrators like the one narrated by Al Qa’nabi . This version has “ I forgot to ask the number of rak’ahs he offered (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Al Rahman bin Safwan said “I asked ‘Umar bin Al Khattab How did the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) do when he entered the Ka’bah? He said “He offered two rak’ahs of prayer.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying “Journey should not be made(to visit any masjid) except towards three masjids:The sacred masjid(of Makkah), this masjid of mine and Al Aqsa masjid(in Jerusalem) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Adi bin Zaid said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) declared Madeenah a protected land a mail-post(three miles) from each side. Its trees are not to be beaten off or to be cut except what is taken from the Camel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The leaves should not be beaten off and the trees should not be cut in the protected land of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), but the leaves can be beaten off softly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) used to visit Quba on foot and riding. Ibn Numair added “and he used to offer two rak’ahs of prayer.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If any one of you greets me, Allah returns my soul to me and I respond to the greeting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not make your houses graves, and do not make my grave a place of festivity. But invoke blessings on me, for your blessings reach me wherever you may be (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi’ reported on the authority of ‘Abd Allah bin ‘Umar “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) made his Camel kneel down at Al Batha which lies in Dhu Al Hulaifa and prayed there. Abd Allah bin ‘Umar too used to do so.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying “Women may be married for four reasons:for her property, her ranks, her beauty and her religiosity. So get the one who is religious and prosper (lit. may your hands cleave to the dust).” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abd Allah said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) said to me “Did you marry?” I said “Yes”. He again said “Virgin or Non Virgin (woman previously married)?” I said “Non Virgin”. He said “Why (did you) not (marry) a virgin with whom you could sport and she could sport with you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ), and said: My wife does not prevent the hand of a man who touches her. He said: Divorce her. He then said: I am afraid my inner self may covet her. He said: Then enjoy her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The adulterer who has been flogged shall not marry save the one like him. AbuMa'mar said: Habib al-Mu'allim narrated (this tradition) to us on the authority of Amr ibn Shu'ayb (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Dawud reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “Anyone who sets his slave girl free and then marries her, will have a double reward.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas bin ‘Malik said “The Prophet(ﷺ) manumitted Safiyyah and made her manumission her dower.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: What is unlawful by reason of consanguinity is unlawful by reason of fosterage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allaah bin Mas’ud said “Fosterage is not valid except by what strengthens love and grows flesh.” Abu Musa said “Do not ask us so long as this learned man is among us” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been narrated by Ibn Mas’ud through a different chain of narrators and to the same effect from the Prophet (ﷺ). This version has the words anshaz al-‘azma meaning which nourishes bones and makes them sturdy and vigorous (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said “In what was sent down in the Qu’ran ten suckling’s made marriage unlawful, but they were abrogated by five known ones and when the Prophet (ﷺ) dies, these words were among what was recited in the Qur’an.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah reported “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying One or two sucks does not make marriage unlawful” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hajjaj ibn Malik al-Aslami: I asked: Messenger of Allah, what will remove from me the obligation due for fostering a child? He said: A slave or a slave-woman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said “The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) forbade that a woman and her maternal aunt and a woman and her paternal aunt are joined in marriage (to the same man).” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) abominated the combination of paternal and maternal aunts and the combination of two maternal aunts and two paternal aunts in marriage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Ibn Abi Mulaikah. He said “’Ali (Allaah be pleased with him) then kept silence about the marriage (i.e., marrying Abi Jahl’s daughter) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al Zuhri said “we were with ‘Umar bin ‘Abd Al Aziz, there we discussed temporary marriage. A man called Rabi bin Saburah said “I bear witness that my father told me that the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) had prohibited it at the Farewell Pilgrimage.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Rabi' b. Saburah reported on the authority of his father:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited temporary marriage with women (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by ‘Ali through a different chain of narrators from the Prophet (ﷺ) to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If any slave marries without the permission of his masters, he is a fornicator (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying “If a slave marries without the permission of his master, his marriage is null and void. Abu Dawud said “This tradition is weak. This is mauquf(does not go back to the Prophet). This is the statement of the Ibn ‘Umar himself (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “ A man should not seek the hand of a woman in marriage when his brother has already sought her hand.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: One of you must not ask a woman in marriage when his brother has done so already, and one of you must not sell (his own goods) when his brother has already sold (his goods) except with his permission (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by A’ishah through a different chain of narrators from the Prophet (ﷺ) to the same effect. Abu Dawud said “Ja’far did not hear any tradition from Al Zuhri. Al Zuhri gave him his writing.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is no marriage without the permission of a guardian. Abu Dawud said: The narrator Yunus also transmitted on the authority of Abu Burdah, and Isra'il narrated from Abu Ishaq on the authority of Abu Burdah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Az-Zubayr reported on the authority of Umm Habibah that she was the wife of Ibn Jahsh, but he died, He was among those who migrated to Abyssinia. Negus then married her to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Al Dahhak to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. This version has Allaah prohibited that (practice) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Consult women about (the marriage of) their daughters (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: A virgin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that her father had married her against her will, so the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed her to exercise her choice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “A woman without a husband has more right to her person than her guardian and a virgin’s permission must be asked, her permission being her silence. These are the words of Al Qa’nabi (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A guardian has no concern with a woman previously married and has no husband, and an orphan girl (i.e. virgin) must be consulted, her silence being her acceptance (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Khansa’ daughter of Khidham al-Ansariyyah reports that when her father married her when she had previously been married and she disapproved of that she went to the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) and mentioned it to him. He (the Prophet) revoked her marriage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: AbuHind cupped the Prophet (ﷺ) in the middle of his head. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Banu Bayadah, marry AbuHind (to your daughter), and ask him to marry (his daughter) to you. He said: The best thing by which you treat yourself is cupping (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Salamah said “I asked A’ishah about the dower given by the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ). She said “It was twelve Uqiyahs and a nashsh”. I asked “What is nashsh?” She said it is half an uqiyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Az-Zuhri said:The Negus married Umm Habibah daughter of Abu Sufyan to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for a dower of four thousand dirhams. He wrote it to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) who accepted it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Makhul has also transmitted a tradition like the one narrated by Sahl (b. Sa'd al-Sa'idi). Makhul used to say:This is not lawful for anyone after the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by 'Alqamah on the authority of 'Abd Allah. 'Uthman (b. Abi Shaibah) narrated a similar tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Isma'il bin Ibrahim:On the authority of a man from Banu Sulaim: I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) to marry Umamah daughter of 'Abd al-Muttalib to me. So he married her to me without reciting the tashahhud (i.e. the sermon for marriage) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) married me when I was seven years old. The narrator Sulaiman said: or Six years. He had intercourse with me when I was nine years old (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) married Safiyyah, he stayed with her three nights. The narrator 'Uthman added: She was non virgin (previously married). He said: This tradition has been narrated to me by Hushaim, reported by Humaid, and transmitted by Anas (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: When Ali married Fatimah, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him: Give her something. He said: I have nothing with me. He said: Where is your Hutamiyyah (coat of mail) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Ibn 'Abbas through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded me to send a woman to her husband before he gave something to her. Abu Dawud said: The narrator Khaithamah did not hear (any tradition) from 'Aishah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) congratulated a man on his marriage, he said: May Allah bless for you, and may He bless on you, and combine both of you in good (works) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa'id b. al-Musayyab said:A man called Basrah b. Akhtam married a woman. The narrator then reported the rest of the tradition to the same effect. This version added: And he separated them. The tradition narrated by Ibn Juraij is perfect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When a man has two wives and he is inclined to one of them, he will come on the Day of resurrection with a side hanging down (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to divide his time equally and said: O Allah, this is my division concerning what I control, so do not blame me concerning what You control and I do not. Abu Dawud said: By it meant the heart (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) sent for his wives during his illness. When they got together, he(ﷺ) said “I am unable to visit all of you. If you think to permit me to stay with A’ishah you may do so.” So they permitted him (to stay with A’ishah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Uqbah bin ‘Amir reported the Apostle of Allaah (ﷺ) as saying “The condition worthier to be fulfilled by you is the one by which you made the private parts (of your wife) lawful (for you) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying “When a man calls his wife to come to his bed and she refuses and does not come to him and he spends the night angry, the angels curse her till the morning.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah al-Qushayri: I went to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and asked him: What do you say (command) about our wives? He replied: Give them food what you have for yourself, and clothe them by which you clothe yourself, and do not beat them, and do not revile them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Harrah Al Ruqashi reported on the authority of his uncle” The Prophet (ﷺ) said “If you fear the recalcitrance abandon them in their beds.” The narrator Hammad said “By abandonment he meant abandonment of intercourse.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A man will not be asked as to why he beat his wife (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jarir said I asked the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) about an accidental glance (on a woman). He (ﷺ) said “Turn your eyes away.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraydah ibn al-Hasib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: to Ali: Do not give a second look, Ali, (because) while you are not to blame for the first, you have no right to the second (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Masu’d reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “ A woman should not rub her body directly with the body of another woman so that she describes it to her husband as if he were looking at her.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The aforesaid tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Hurairah through a different chain of narrators. This version adds “The fornication of ear is hearing.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id Al Khudri traced to Prophet (ﷺ) the following statement regarding the captives taken at Atwas. There must be no intercourse with pregnant woman till she gives birth to her child or with the one who is not pregnant till she has had one menstrual period (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who has intercourse with his wife through her anus is accursed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Muhammad bin Al Munkadir said I heard Jabir say The Jews used to say “When a man has intercourse with his wife through the vagina, but being on her back the child will have a squint, so the verse came down. Your wives are a tilth to you, so come to your tilth however you will.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Maimunah daughter of Al Harith said “When the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) intended to associate and lie with any of his wives who was menstruating, he ordered her to wrap up the lower garment(loin-cloth) and then he had association with her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said about a man who has sexual intercourse with a menstruating woman: He should give one or half dinar as sadaqah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: If a man has sexual intercourse (with menstruating woman) during her bleeding, he should give one dinar as sadaqah, and if he does so when bleeding has stopped, he should give half a dinar as sadaqah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id reported “The people mentioned about withdrawing the penis before the Prophet (ﷺ). He said “Why one of you does so? He did not say “One of you should not do so”. Every soul that is to be born, Allaah will create it. Abu Dawud said “Qaza’ah is a client of Ziyad” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Anyone who incites a woman against her husband or a slave against his master is not one of us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “A woman should not ask for the divorce of her sister to make her bowl vacant for her and to marry him. She will have what is decreed for her.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Muharib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah did not make anything lawful more abominable to Him than divorce (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Of all the lawful acts the most detestable to Allah is divorce (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said that he divorced his wife while she was menstruating. ‘Umar mentioned the matter to the Prophet(ﷺ). He (the Prophet) said “Order him, he must take her back and divorce her when she is purified (from menstrual discharge) or she is pregnant.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Yunus bin Jubair said that he asked Ibn ‘Umar “How many times did you pronounce divorce to your wife? He replied, once.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above tradition has also been transmitted by ‘Amr bin Shu’aib through a different chain of narrators. This version adds The Prophet (ﷺ) said “There is no vow except in an act which seeks the pleasure of Allah, the Exalted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There are three things which, whether undertaken seriously or in jest, are treated as serious: Marriage, divorce and taking back a wife (after a divorce which is not final) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Tawus said:Abu al-Sahba' said to Ibn Abbas: Do you know that a divorce by three pronouncements was made a single one during the time of the Prophet (ﷺ), and of AbuBakr and in the early days of the caliphate of Umar? He replied: Yes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) gave us our choice and we chose him so that was not reckoned anything (i.e., divorce) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qatadah reported on the authority of Al Hasan the uttering of the words “Your matter is in your hand” amounts to three pronouncements of divorce (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Rukanah bin Yazid from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying “Allah has ignored for my community what comes to their mind, so long as they do not act or pronounce words to that effect.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Tamimah al-Hujayni: A man said to his wife: O my younger sister! The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)said: Is she your sister? He (the Prophet disliked it and prohibited saying so) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has been transmitted by Ibn Ishaq with a different chain of narrators. But in this version he said ‘Araq is a date-basket holding thirty sa’s. Abu Dawud said “This version is sounder than that of Yahya bin Adam.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Another version transmitted by Abu Salamah bin ‘Abd Al Rahman has ‘Araq is a date-basket holding fifteen sa’s (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has been transmitted by A’ishah through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Ikrimah said “A man made his wife like the back of his mother. When he saw the illumination of her shin in the moonlight, he had intercourse with her. He came to the Prophet (ﷺ). He ordered him to atone for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has been transmitted by Ibn ‘Abbas from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators. This version does not mention the word “shin” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A tradition similar to that of Sufyan has been transmitted by ‘Ikrimah from the Prophet(ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Thawban: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If any woman asks her husband for divorce without some strong reason, the odour of Paradise will be forbidden to her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said “The waiting period of a woman who separates herself from her husband for compensation is a menstrual period.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said “The husband of Barirah was a black slave called Mughith. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave her choice and commanded her to observe the waiting period.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
While relating the tradition about Barirah A’ishah said “her husband was a slave, so the Prophet(ﷺ) gave her choice. She chose herself. Had he been a free man, he would not given her choice.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said “The Prophet (ﷺ) gave her choice. Her husband was a slave.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said “Barirah’s husband was a free man when she was emancipated. She was given choice. She said “I do not like to remain with him. I have such and such (grievances)” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Barirah was emancipated, and she was the wife of Mughith, a slave of Aal AbuAhmad. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave her choice, and said to her: If he has intercourse with you, then there is no choice for you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Qasim said:Aisha intended to set free two slaves of her who were spouses. She, therefore, asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about this matter. He commanded to begin with the man before the woman. The narrator Nasr said: Abu 'Ali al-Hanafi reported it to me on the authority of Ubaydullah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: A man came after embracing Islam during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). Afterwards his wife came after embracing Islam. He said: Messenger of Allah, she embraced Islam along with me; so restore her to me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) restored his daughter Zaynab to Abul'As on the basis of the previous marriage, and he did not do anything afresh. Muhammad b. 'Amr said in his version: After six years. Al-Hasan b. 'Ali said: After two years (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Qais bin Al Harith through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Dahhak b. Firuz reported on the authority of his father:I said: Messenger of Allah, I have embraced Islam and two sisters are my wives. He said: Divorce any one of them you wish (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abbas bin Sahl reported on the authority of his father “The Prophet (ﷺ) said to ‘Asim bin ‘Adl. Keep the woman with you till she begets the child (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl bin Sa’d Al Sa’idi said “I attended the invoking of the curses with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when I was fifteen. He then narrated the rest of the tradition. In this version he said “She then came out pregnant and the child was ascribed to its mother (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Sahl bin Sa’d Al Sa’idi through a different chain of narrators. This version adds the child was attributed to its mother (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: When the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered a man and his wife to invoke curses on each other, he ordered a man to put his hand on his mouth when he came to the fifth utterance, saying that it would be the deciding one (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been narrated by Al Zuhri through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. This version adds “At that time he was hinting at disowning the child.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ), and said: My wife has given birth to a black son, and I disown him. He then narrated the rest of the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has been narrated by ‘Abd Al Rahman bin Abi Laila through a different chain of narrators. This version has “He decided that she would be given to Ja’far and said “Her maternal aunt is with him(i.e., his wife) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: The Prophet (ﷺ) divorced Hafsah, but he took her back in marriage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Al Sha’bi through a different chain of narrators. This version has “The husband of Fathima daughter of Qais pronounced her triple divorce. The Prophet (ﷺ) did not allow her to have maintenance and dwelling.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Urwah said:Aisha (Allah be pleased with her) severely objected to the tradition of Fatimah daughter of Qays. She said: Fatimah lived in a desolate house and she feared for her loneliness there. Hence the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) accorded permission to her (to leave the place) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Urwah ibn az-Zubayr said:Aisha was asked: Did you not see (i.e. known) the statement of Fatimah? She replied: It is not good for her to mention it (to others) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sulaimah bin Yasar said about leaving the house by Fathimah “That was due to her bad manners.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Maimun bin Mihram said “I came to Median and went to Sa’id bin Al Musayyab”. I said (to him) Fathimah daughter of Qais was divorced and she shifted from her house. Sa’id said “This woman has perverted people. She was arrogant so she was placed with Ibn Umm Makhtum, the blind.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A woman whose husband has died must not wear clothes dyed with safflower (usfur) or with red ochre (mishq) and ornaments. She must not apply henna and collyrium (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: I can invoke the curse of Allah on anyone who wishes: The smaller surat an-Nisa (i.e. Surat at-Talaq) was revealed after the verse regarding the waiting period of four months and ten days had been revealed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Amr ibn al-'As: Do not confuse us about his Sunnah. Ibn al-Muthanna said: The Sunnah of our Prophet (ﷺ) is that the waiting period of a slave-mother whose husband has died is four months and ten days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: Musaykah, a slave-girl of some Ansari, came and said: My master forces me to commit fornication. Thereupon the following verse was revealed: "But force not your maids to prostitution (when they desire chastity) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said “The verse concerning the payment of ransom stands valid for pregnant and sucking woman.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: We kept fast for twenty-nine days along with the Prophet (ﷺ) more often than we kept fast for thirty days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakrah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: The two months of 'Id (festival), Ramadan and Dhu al-Hijjah, are not defective (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to count the days in Sha'ban in a manner he did not count any other month; then he fasted when he sighted the new moon of Ramadan; but if the weather was cloudy he counted thirty days and then fasted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hudhayfah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not fast (for Ramadan) before the coming of the month until you sight the moon or complete the number (of thirty days); then fast until you sight the moon or complete the number (of thirty days) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Imran bin Husain:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) asked a man: Did you fast the last day of Sha'ban ? He replied: No. He said: If you did not observe a fast, you must fast for a day. One of the two narrators said: For two days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sulaiman b. 'Abd al-Rahman al-Dimashqi said about this tradition that al-Walid said:I heard Abu 'Amr al-Auza'i say: The word sirrahu means beginning of the month (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ahmad b. 'Abd al-Wahid:On the authority of Abu Mushir. He said: Sa'id, that is, Ibn 'Abd al-'Aziz said: The meaning of the word sirraha is "in the beginning of it (the month) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Do not fast one day or two days just before Ramadan, except in the case of a man who has been in the habit of observing the particular fast, for he may fast on that day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: She never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) fasting the whole month except Sha'ban which he combined with Ramadan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The people looked for the moon, so I informed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that I had sighted it. He fasted and commanded the people to fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amr b. al-'As:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: The difference between our fasting and that of the people of the Book is eating shortly before dawn (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Irbad ibn Sariyyah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) invited me to a meal shortly before dawn in Ramadan saying: Come to the blessed morning meal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: How good is the believers meal of dates shortly before dawn (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Talq ibn Ali al-Yamami: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Eat and drink; let not the white and ascending light prevent you from (eating and drinking); so eat and drink until the red light spreads horizontally (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When any of you hears the summons to prayer while he has a vessel in his hand, he should not lay it down till he fulfils his need (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: When the night approaches from this side and the day retreats on that side, and the sun sets - according to the version of Musaddad - he who fasts has reached the time to break it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Religion will continue to prevail as long as people hasten to break the fast, because the Jews and the Christians delay doing so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salman ibn Amir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you is fasting, he should break his fast with dates; but if he cannot get any, then (he should break his fast) with water, for water is purifying (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to break his fast before praying with some fresh dates; but if there were no fresh dates, he had a few dry dates, and if there were no dry dates, he took some mouthfuls of water (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Marwan ibn Salim al-Muqaffa' said: I saw Ibn Umar holding his beard with his hand and cutting what exceeded the handful of it. He (Ibn Umar) said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said when he broke his fast: Thirst has gone, the arteries are moist, and the reward is sure, if Allah wills (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Zuhrah: The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) used to say when he broke his fast: O Allah, for Thee I have fasted, and with Thy provision I have broken my fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Asma' daughter of Abu Bakr :We broke the fast one during Ramadan when it was cloudy in the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ; then the sun rose. Abu Usamah said: I said to Hisham: Were they commanded to atone for it ? He replied: That was inevitable (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited perpetual fasting. They (the people) said: You keep perpetual fasting, Messenger of Allah. He said: My position is not like that you yours. I am provided with food and drink (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: Fast is a shield ; when one of you is fasting, he should neither behave in an obscene manner nor foolishly. If a man fights or abuses him, he should say: I am fasting, I am fasting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Amir ibn Rabi'ah: I have seen the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) using a tooth-stick while he was fasting. Musaddad added in his version: "more often than I could count (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Laqit ibn Saburah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Snuff up water freely unless you are fasting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Thawban, the client of the Prophet (ﷺ):The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: A man who cups and a man who gets himself cupped break their fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Thawban: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: A man who cups and a man who gets himself cupped break their fast. Abu Dawud said: Ibn Thawban transmitted a similar tradition from his father on the authority of Makhul through an chain of narrators mentioned by him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had himself cupped when he was fasting and wearing ihram (pilgrim garb) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:We would not allow a man who was fasting to get himself cupped due to abomination of hardship (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A man from the Companions: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Neither vomiting, nor emission, nor cupping breaks the fast of the one who is fasting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ubaid Allah b. Abu Bakr b. Anas reported on the authority of Anas b. Malik that he used to apply collyrium when he was fasting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-A'mash said:I did not see any of our companions who abominated the use of collyrium by a man who fasting. Ibrahim would permit the man who was fasting to apply collyrium with aloes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: if one has a sudden attack of vomiting while one is fasting, no atonement is required of him, but if he vomits intentionally he must make atonement (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to kiss and embrace while he was fasting, but he was the one of you who had most control over his desire (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to kiss (me) during the month of fasting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to kiss me when he was fasting and when I was fasting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to kiss her and suck her tongue when he was fasting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Aishah through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:A huge basket containing twenty sa's (of dates) was brought (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone breaks his fast one day in Ramadan without a concession granted to him by Allah, a perpetual fast will not atone for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: Messenger of Allah, I ate and drank in forgetfulness when I was fasting. Hie said: Allah had fed you and given you drink (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:If I had some part of the fast of Ramadan to make up, I would not be able to atone for it except in Sha'ban (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone dies when some fast is due from him (i.e. which he could not keep) his heir must fast on his behalf. Abu Dawud said: This applies to the fast which a man vows ; and this is the opinion of Ahmad b. Hanbal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:Hamzat al-Aslami asked the Prophet (ﷺ): Messenger of Allah, I am a man who keeps perpetual fast, may I fast while on a journey? He replied: Fast if you like, or break your fast if you like (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas :We travelled along with the Prophet (ﷺ) during Ramadan. Some of us were fasting and other broke their fast. Those who fasted did not find fault with those who broke, and those who broke their fast did not find fault with those who fasted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir b. 'Abd Allah :The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man who had been put in the shade and saw a crowd of people around him (in the course of a journey). He said: Fasting while on journey is not part of righteousness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salamah ibn al-Muhabbaq al-Hudhali: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: If anyone has a riding beast which carries him to where he can get sufficient food, he should keep the fast of Ramadan wherever he is when it comes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salamah b. al-Muhabbaq:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone is on a journey and Ramadan comes... He then narrated the rest of the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi' said:Ibn 'Umar used to go out to al-Ghabah (jungle), but he neither broke his fast, nor shortened his prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBakrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: One of you should not say: I fasted the whole of Ramadan, and I prayed during the night in the whole of Ramadan. I do not know whether he disliked the purification; or he (the narrator) said: He must have slept a little and taken rest (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The day of Arafah, the day of sacrifice, the days of tashriq are (the days of) our festival, O people of Islam. These are the days of eating and drinking (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: None of you must fast on Friday unless he fasts the day before or the day after (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated As-Samma' sister of Abdullah ibn Busr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not fast on Saturday except what has been made obligatory on you; and if one of you can get nothing but a grape skin or a piece of wood from a tree, he should chew it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Juwairiyah, daughter of al-Harith:That the Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon her on Friday while she was fasting. He asked: Did you fast yesterday ? She said: No. He again asked: Do you intend to fast tomorrow ? She said: No. He said: So break your fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Laith:When it was mentioned to Ibn Shihab (al-Zuhri) that fasting on Saturday had been prohibited, he would say: This is a Himsi tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Auza'i said:I always concealed it, but I found that it became known widely, that is, the tradition on Ibn Busr about fasting on Saturday. Abu Dawud said: Malik said: This is a false (tradition) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Qatadah through a different chain of narrators. This version add:He said: Messenger of Allah, tell me about keeping fast on Monday and Thursday. He said: On it I was born, and on it the Qur'an was first revealed to me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: The most excellent fast after Ramadan is Allah's month al-Muharram, and the most excellent prayer after the prescribed prayer is the prayer during night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The month most liked by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for fasting was Sha'ban. He then joined it with Ramadan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Muslim al-Qurashi: I asked or someone asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about perpetual fasting. He replied: You have a duty to your family. Fast during Ramadan and the following month, and every Wednesday and Thursday. You will then have observed a perpetual fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Ayyub:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone fasts during Ramadan, then follows it with six days in Shawwal, it will be like a perpetual fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has alos been transmitted by Abu Hurairah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. This version adds:He would fast all but a little of Sha'ban, rather he used to fast the whole of Sha'ban (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fasting during the first ten days of Dhu al-Hijjah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: Ikrimah said: We were with AbuHurayrah in his house when he narrated to us: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited fasting on the day of Arafah at Arafah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:'Ashurah was a day on which we used to fast in pre-Islamic days. When (fasting of) Ramadan was prescribed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: This is one of the days of Allah ; he who wishes may fast on it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Maslamah: AbdurRahman reported on the authority of his uncle that the people of the tribe Aslam came to the Prophet (ﷺ). He said (to them): Did you fast on this day? They replied: No. He said: Complete the rest of your day, and make atonement for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qatadah Ibn Malhan al-Qaysi: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to command us to fast the days of the white (nights): thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth of the month. He said: This is like keeping perpetual fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to fast three days every month (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hafsah, Ummul Mu'minin: The apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to fast three days every month: Monday, Thursday and Monday in the next week (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Mu'adhah (al-'Adawiyyah) said:I asked 'Aishah: Would the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fast three days every month ? She replied: Yes. I asked: Which days in the month he used to fast ? She replied: He did not care which days of the month he fasted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hafsah, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who does not determine to fast before dawn does not fast (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:It is not allowable for a woman to keep (voluntary) fast when her husband is present without his permission, and she may not allow anyone to enter his house without his permission (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When one of you is invited (to a meal), and he is fasting, he should say that he is fasting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to observe retirement (i'tikaf) to the mosque during the last ten days of Ramadan till Allah took him, and then his wives observed retirement to the mosque after his death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubayy ibn Ka'b: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to observe i'tikaf during the last ten days of Ramadan. One year he did not observe i'tikaf. When the next year came, he observed i'tikaf for twenty nights (i.e. days) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to observe I'tikaf during the last ten days of Ramadan. Nafi' said: 'Abd Allah (b. 'Umar) showed me the place in the mosque where Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe I'tikaf (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to observe I'tikaf during ten days of Ramadan every year. But when the year in which he died, he observed I'tikaf for twenty days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed I'tikaf, he would put his head near me, and I would comb it. and he entered the house only to fulfill human needs (i.e. to urinate or to relieve himself) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe I'tikaf in the mosque and put his head near me through the opening of the apartment, and I would wash his head. Musaddad said: "And I would comb it while I was menstruating (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah(may Allaah be pleased with her) said “One of the wives of the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) observed I’tikaf along with him (in the mosque). She would see yellowness and redness. Sometimes we would place a washbasin while she prayed.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Migration will not end until repentance ends, and repentance will not end until the sun rises in the west (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas reported that Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) as saying on the day of the conquest of Makkah:There is no emigration (after the conquest of Makkah), but only Jihad (striving in the path of Allah) and some intention. So when you are summoned to go forth (for Jihad), go forth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Imran ibn Husayn: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A section of my community will continue to fight for the right and overcome their opponents till the last of them fights with the Antichrist (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUmamah: A man said: Messenger of Allah, allow tourism for me. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The tourism of my people is striving in the path of Allah, the Exalted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Returning home is like going on an expedition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: No one should sail on the sea except the one who is going to perform hajj or umrah, or the one who is fighting in Allah's path for under the sea there is a fire, and under the fire there is a sea (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Umm Haram reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as saying “He who becomes sick on a stormy sea and vomits will have the reward of a martyr. And he who is drowned will have a reward of two martyrs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “An infidel and the one who killed him will never be brought together in Hell.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Anas al-Juhani: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: (The reward of) prayer, fasting and remembrance of Allah is enhanced seven hundred times over (the reward of) spending in Allah's path (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying “He who dies without having fought or having felt fighting (against the infidels) to be his duty will die guilty of a kind of hypocrisy.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Use your property, your persons any your tongues in striving against the polytheists (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Najdah bin Nufai’ said “I asked Ibn ‘Abbas about the verse. “Unless you go forth, He will punish you with a grievous penalty.” He replied “The rain stopped from them. This was their punishment.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Zaid bin Khalid al Juhani reported that Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “He who equips a fighter in Allaah’s path has taken part in the fighting. And he looks after a fighter’s family when he is away has taken part in the fighting.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: What is evil in a man are alarming niggardliness and unrestrained cowardice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Uqabah bin Amir Al Juhani said “I heard the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) recite when he was on the pulpit “Against them make ready your strength to the utmost of your power. Beware, strength is shooting, beware strength is shooting, beware strength is shooting.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Amr said “I heard from Abu Wa’il a tradition which surprised me, he then narrated the tradition to the same effect (as mentioned before) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hasana' daughter of Mu'awiyah: She reported on the authority of her paternal uncle: I asked the Prophet (ﷺ): Who are in Paradise? He replied: Prophets are in Paradise, martyrs are in Paradise, infants are in Paradise and children buried alive are in Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When Negus died, we were told that a light would be seen perpetually at his grave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The warrior gets his reward, and the one who equips him gets his own reward and that of the warrior (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: A man came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said: I came to you to take the oath of allegiance to you on emigration, and I left my parents weeping. He (the Prophet) said: Return to them and make them laugh as you made them weep (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah bin ‘Amr said “A man came to the Prophet(ﷺ) and said “Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ), May I take part in jihad?” He asked “Do you have parents?” He replied “Yes”. So, strive for them.” Abu Dawud said:The name of the narrator Abu al-'Abbas, a poet, is al-Sa'ib b. Farrukh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went on an expedition, he took Umm Sulaym, and he had some women of the Ansar who supplied water and tended the wounded (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Utbah ibn AbdusSulami: Utbah heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Do not cut the forelocks, manes, or tails of horse, for their tails are their means of driving flies, their manes provide them with warmth, and blessing is tide to their forelocks (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuWahb al-Jushami,: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Keep to every dark bay horse with a white blaze and white on the legs, or sorrel with a white blaze and white on the legs , or black with a white blaze and white on the legs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The most favoured horses are the sorrel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to name a mare a horse (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said “The Prophet (ﷺ) disapproved the shikal horses. Shikal are the horses that are white on their right hind leg and white on their left foreleg or white on their right foreleg and left hind leg. Abu Dawud said “This means alternate legs” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sahl ibn al-Hanzaliyyah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came upon an emaciated camel and said: Fear Allah regarding these dumb animals. Ride them when they are in good condition and feed them when they are in good condition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: When we alighted at a station (for stay), we did not pray until we united the saddles of the camels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuWahb al-Jushami,: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Tie the horses, rub down their forelocks and their buttocks (or he said: Their rumps), and put things on their necks, but do not put bowstrings (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Habibah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The angels do not go with a travelling company in which there is a bell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “The angels do not accompany the fellow travelers who have a dog or bell (with them).” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “The bell is a wooden wind musical instrument of Satan.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: It has been prohibited to ride the beast which eats dung (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited to ride a camel which eats dung (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Mu’adh said “I was seated behind the Prophet (ﷺ) on a donkey that was called ‘Ufair” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) named our cavalry "the Cavalry of Allah," when we were struck with panic, and when panic overtook us, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to be united, to have patience and perseverance; and to be so when we fought (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited to provoke the beasts for fighting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas bin Malik said “I brought my brother when he was born to Prophet(ﷺ) to chew something for him and rub his palate with it and found him in a sheep pen branding the sheep, I think, on their ears.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying when an ass which had been branded on its face passed him. Did it not reach you that I cursed him who branded the animals on their faces or struck them on their faces. So he prohibited it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was present with a she-mule which he rode, so Ali said: If we made asses cover mares we would have animals of this type. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Only those who do not know do that (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been narrated by Jabir bin ‘Abd Allaah from the Prophet (ﷺ). But this version adds after the phrase “their due” And do not go beyond the destinations (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “Keep to travelling by night, for the earth is traversed (more easily) by night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Wagers are allowed only for racing camels, or horses or shooting arrows (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah bin Umar said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) held race between the horses which had been made lean by training from Al Hafya’. The goal was Thaniyyat Al Wada’ and he held a race between the horses Banu Zuraiq and ‘Abd Allaah was one of the racers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to make lean by training horses which he employed in the race (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to hold a race between horses and kept the one in the fifth year at a long distance (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If one enters a horse with two others when he is not certain that it cannot be beaten, it is not gambling; but when one enters a horse with two others when he is certain it cannot be beaten, it is gambling (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Imran ibn Husayn: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There must be no shouting or leading another horse at one's side. Yahya added in his tradition: When racing for a wager (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qatadah said “Taking another horse behind one’s horse to urge it on and taking another horse at one’s side are (done) in a horse race (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The pommel of the sword of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was of silver (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'id ibn AbulHasan: The pommel of the sword of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was of silver. Qatadah said: I do not know that anyone has supported him for that (for the tradition narrated by Sa'id b. Abu al-Hasan) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been narrated by Anas bin Malik through a different chain of narrators. He mentioned similar words. Abu Dawud said “the strongest of these traditions is the one of Sa’id bin Abu Al Hasan. The rest are weak (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) ordered a man who was distributing arrows not to pass the mosque with them except that he is holding their heads (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Musa reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “ When one of you passes our Masjid or our market with an arrow, he should hold its head or hold it with its hand (the narrator is doubtful) so that no harm may be done to any Muslim.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited to hand the drawn sword (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited to cut a piece of leather between two fingers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'ib ibn Yazid: As-Sa'ib reported on the authority of a man whom he named: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) put on two coats of mail during the battle of Uhud as a double protection. (The narrator is doubtful about the word zahara or labisa) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: Yunus ibn Ubayd, client of Muhammad ibn al-Qasim, said that Muhammad ibn al-Qasim sent to al-Bara' ibn Azib to ask him about the standard of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He said: It was black and square, being made of a woollen rug (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca his banner was white (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Simak ibn Harb: Simak reported on the authority of a man from his people, on the authority of another man from them: I saw that the standard of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was yellow (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbudDarda': I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Seek for me weak persons, for you are provided means of subsistence and helped through your weaklings. Abu Dawud said: Zaid b. Artat is the brother of 'Adi b. Artat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Samurah bin Jundub said “The war-cry of the Emigrants was ‘Abd Allah and that of the helpers ‘Abd Al Rahman.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ilyas bin Salamah(bin Al Akwa’) said on the authority of his father “We went on an expedition with Abu Bakr (Allaah be pleased with him) in the time of the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) and our war cry was “Put to death” “Put to death”.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A man who heard the Prophet: Al-Muhallab ibn AbuSufrah said: A man who heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: If the enemy attacks you at night, let your war cry be Ha-Mim. They will not be helped (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qaza’ah said Ibn ‘Umar told me “Come, I see off you as the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) saw me off. I entrust to Allaah your religion what you are responsible for and your final deeds.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah al-Khutami: When the Prophet (ﷺ) wanted to say farewell to an army, he would say: I entrust to Allah your religion, what you are responsible for, and your final deeds (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abd Allaah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “Do not send out your beasts when the sun has set till the darkness of the night prevails, for the devils grope about in the dark when the sun has set till the darkness of the night prevails.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ka'b ibn Malik: It was rarely that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) set out on a journey on any day but on a Thursday (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: A single rider is a devil, and a pair of riders are a pair of devils, but three are a company of riders (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When three are on a journey, they should appoint one of them as their commander (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When three are on a journey, they should appoint one of them as their commander. Nafi' said: We said to AbuSalamah: You are our commander (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allaah bin ‘Umar said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) prohibited to travel with a copy of the Qur’an to the enemy territory. The narrator Malik said “(It is) I think lest the enemy should take it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn “umar said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) burned the palm tree of Banu Al Nadr and cut (them) down at Al Buwairah. So, Allaah the exalted sent down “the palm trees you cut down or left.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Usamah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) enjoined upon him to attack Ubna in the morning and burn the place (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Mishar was told about Ubna. He said “We know it better. This is Yubna of Palestine (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said “the Prophet(ﷺ) sent Busaisah as a spy to see what the caravan of Abu Sufyan was doing.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Bishr said “I heard ‘Abbad bin ‘Shurahbil a man of us from Banu Ghubar. He narrated the reast of the tradition to the same effect.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl bin Mu’adh reported on the authority of his father “We fought along with the Prophet of Allaah(ﷺ). The rest of the tradition is to the same effect.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went on an expedition, he said: O Allah, Thou art my aider and helper; by Thee I move, by Thee I attack, and by Thee I fight (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said “The Prophet (ﷺ) used to attack at the time of the dawn prayer and hear. If he heard a call to prayer, he would refrain from them, otherwise would attack (them) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Isam al-Muzani: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent us in a detachment and said (to us): If you see a mosque or hear a mu'adhdhin (calling to prayer), do not kill anyone (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “War is deception.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to keep to the rear when travelling and urge on the weak. He would take someone up behind him and make supplication for them all (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas bin Malik reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “ I am commanded to fight with the polytheists. The rest of the tradition is to the same effect as mentioned above.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id said “The verse “If any do turn his back to them on such a day” was revealed on the day of the Battle of Badr.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Muqarrin: I was present at fighting along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and when he did not fight at the beginning of the day, he waited till the sun had passed the meridian, the winds blew, and help came down (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qays ibn Abbad: The Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ), disliked shouting while fighting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Bardah on the authority of his father from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al Bara’ said “When the Prophet (ﷺ) fought the polytheists in the battle of Hunain, they (the Muslims) retreated, he (the Prophet) came down from his mule and walked on foot (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al Zuhri said “This tradition has been transmitted to me by ‘Amr bin Abu Sufyan bin Usaid bin Jariyat Al Thaqafi who was an ally of Banu Zuhrah and a companion of Abu Hurairah. He then narrated the tradition.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Usaid reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying to us at the battle of Badr when he drew up in rows. When they came near you, shoot arrows at them, but do not use all your arrows (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUsayd as-Sa'idi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said at the battle of Badr: When they come near you shoot arrows at them; and do not draw swords at them until they come near you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The most merciful of the people in respect of killing are believers (in Allah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allaah bin (mas’ud) said “A woman was found slain in one of the battles of the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ). The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) forbade to kill women and children (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Kill the old men who are polytheists, but spare their children (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent us along with a contingent, and said: If you find so-and-so. He then narrated the rest of the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “Our Lord Most High is charmed with people who will be led to Paradise in chains.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jubair bin Mut’im reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying about the prisoners taken at Badr. If Mut’im bin ‘Adi had been alive and spoken to me about these filthy ones, I would have left them for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed the ransom of the people of pre-Islamic Arabia at four hundred dirhams per head on the day of the battle of Badr (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi said that a horse of Ibn ‘Umar went away and the enemy seized it. The Muslims overpowered them. Khalid bin Walid returned it to him after the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: In the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) an army got food and honey and a fifth was not taken from them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allaah bin Mughaffal said “On the day of Khaibar a skin of fat was hanging. I came to it and clung to it. I then said (i.e., thought) I shall not give any one any of it today. I then turned round and saw the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) smiling at me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated One of the Companion: Al-Qasim, the client of AbdurRahman, quoted one of the Companion of the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: We would eat a camel on an expedition without dividing it, and when we returned to our dwellings our saddle-bags would be full with its flesh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: To begin with, anyone who conceals one who has been dishonest about booty is like him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by ‘Awf bin Malik Al Ashja’I through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Awf ibn Malik al-Ashja'i ; Khalid ibn al-Walid: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave judgement that the killer should have what was taken from the man he killed, and did not make this subject to division into fifths (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: At the battle of Badr the Messenger of Allah gave me AbuJahl's sword, as I had killed him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: I supplied water to my companions on the day of Badr (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said (this is the version of narrator Yahya). A man from the polytheists accompanied the Prophet (ﷺ) to fight along with him. He said “Go back. Both the narrators (Musaddad and Yahya) then agreed. The Prophet said “We do not want any help from a polytheist.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) allotted three portions for a man and his horse, one for him and two for his horse (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUmrah (al-Ansari?): We four persons, came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and we (i.e. each one of us) had horses. He therefore, allotted one portion for each of us, and two portions for his horse (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu ‘Umrah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. But this version has “Three Persons” and added “To the horseman three portions.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has been transmitted by Dawud with a different chain of narrators. He said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) apportioned it (spoils of war) equally. The tradition of Khalid is more perfect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to give to some of the detachments he sent out (something extra) for themselves in particular apart from the division made to the whole army. The fifth is necessary in all that (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Habib ibn Maslamah al-Fihri: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would give a third of the spoils after he would keep off the fifth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Habib ibn Maslamah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to give a quarter of the booty as reward after the fifty had been kept off, and a third after the fifth had been kept off when he returned (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by ‘Asim bin Kulaib through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “A banner will be hoisted for a treacherous man on the Day of Judgment, it will then be announced. This is a treachery of so and so, son of so and so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurarirah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “A Muslim ruler is shield by which a battle is fought.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBakrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone kills a man whom he grants protection prematurely, Allah will forbid him to enter Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said “Umm Hani daughter of Abu Talib told me that in the year of the conquest she gave protection to a man from the polytheists. She came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned it to him. He said “We have given security to those to whom you have given it.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: A woman would give security from the believers and it would be allowed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al Miswar bin Makhramah and Marwan bin Al Hakam said “They agreed to abandon war for ten years during which the people which have security on the basis that there should be sincerity between them and that there should be not theft or treachery (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Faith prevented assassination. A believer should not assassinate (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jarir (bin ‘Abd Allaah) said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) said to me “Why do you not give me rest from Dhu Al Khulasah? He went there and burned it. He then sent a man from Ahmas to the Prophet (ﷺ) to give him good tidings. His surname was Artah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBakrah: When anything came to the Prophet (ﷺ) which caused pleasure (or, by which he was made glad), he prostrated himself in gratitude to Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) disapproved that a man should come to his family during the night (after returning from a journey) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The best time for a man to go in to his family on return from a journey is at the beginning of the night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al Sai’ib bin Yazid said “When the Prophet(ﷺ) turned from the battle of Tabuk to Madeenah, the people received him, I met him along with the children at Thaniyyat Al Wada’ (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ka’ab bin Malik said “The Prophet (ﷺ) used to arrive from a journey in the daytime. Al Hasan said “During the forenoon.” When he arrived from a journey he went first to the mosque where he prayed two rak’ahs after which he sat in it and gave audience to the people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Beware of the wages of a distributor of booty (qusamah). We asked: What is qusamah (wages of a distributor)? He said: It means a thing which is shared by the people, and then it is reduced (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ata' ibn Yasar: Ata' reported a similar tradition (to No 2777) from the Prophet (ﷺ). This version adds: a man is appointed on groups of people, and takes (wages) from the share of this, and from the share of this (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: To proceed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Anyone who associates with a polytheist and lives with him is like him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hanash: I saw Ali sacrificing two rams; so I asked him: What is this? He replied. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) enjoined upon me to sacrifice on his behalf, so that is what I am doing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sacrificed seven camels standing with his own hand, and sacrificed at Medina two horned rams which were white with black markings (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sacrificed two horned rams which were white with black markings, slaughtered, and uttered: "Allah is Most Great." and mentioned Allah's name and placed his foot on their sides (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to sacrifice a choice, horned ram with black round the eyes, the mouth and the feet (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Sacrifice only a full-grown animal unless it is difficult for you, in which case sacrifice a lamb (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd ibn Khalid al-Juhani: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) distributed sacrificial animals among his Companions. He gave me a kid (of less than a year). I took it to him and said: This is a kid. He said: Sacrifice it. so I sacrificed it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited to sacrifice an animal with a slit ear and broken horn. Abu Dawud said: The narrator Jurayy (b. Kulaib) is Sadusi, and belongs to Basrah. No one narrated traditions from him except Qatadah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qatadah:I asked Sa'id b. al-Musayyab: What is meant by animal with a slit ear and broken horn ? He replied: Half and more than half (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :We performed tamattu' during the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), sacrificed a cow for seven and a camel for seven people. We shared them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A cow serves for seven, and a camel serves for seven (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: We sacrificed along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at al-Hudaybiyyah a camel for seven and a cow for seven people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to slaughter his sacrificial animal at the place of prayer. Ibn 'Umar used to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Thawban:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sacrificed during a journey and then said: Thawban, mend the meat of this goat. I then kept on supplying its meat until we reached Medina (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hisham b. Zaid:I entered upon al-Hakam b. Ayyub along with Anas. He saw some youths or boys who had set up a hen and shooting at it. Anas said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to kill an animal in confinement (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Jews came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: We eat which we kill but we do not eat which Allah kills? So Allah revealed: "Eat not of (meats) on which Allah's name hath not been pronounced." to the end of the verse (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to eat (the meat of animals) slaughtered by the bedouins for vainglory and pride. Abu Dawud said: The narrator Ghundar narrated this tradition as a saying of Ibn 'Abbas (and not of the Prophet) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Muhammad ibn Safwan or Safwan ibn Muhammad: I hunted two hares and slaughtered them with a flint. I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about them. He permitted me to eat them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Adi ibn Hatim: I said: Messenger of Allah, tell me when one of us catches game and has no knife; may he slaughter with a flint and a splinter of stick. He said: Cause the blood to flow with whatever you like and mention Allah's name (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The slaughter of embryo is included when its mother is slaughtered (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:Prophet (ﷺ) sa saying: There is no fara' and 'atirah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'id:Fara' was the first animal born to them (the Arabs) which they sacrificed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Kurz al-Ka'biyyah: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Two resembling sheep are to be sacrificed for a boy and one for a girl. AbuDawud said: I heard Ahmad (ibn Hanbal) say: The Arabic word mukafi'atani means equal (in age) or resembling each other (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Kurz: I heard the Prophet (nay peace be upon him) say: Let the birds stay in their roosts. She said: I also heard him say: Two sheep are to be sacrificed for a boy and one for a girl, but it does you no harm whether they are male or female (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Kurz: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Two sheep which resemble each other are to be sacrificed for a boy and one for a girl. Abu Dawud said: This is a sound tradition, and the tradition narrated by Sufyan is misunderstanding (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salman b. 'Amir al-Dabbi:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Along with a boy there is an 'Aqiqah, so shed blood on his behalf, and remove injury from him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Hasan:To remove the injury is the shaving of the head (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sacrificed a ram for both al-Hasan and al-Husayn each (Allah be pleased with them) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraydah ibn al-Hasib: When a boy was born to one of us in the pre-Islamic period, we sacrificed a sheep and smeared his head with its blood; but when Allah brought Islam, we sacrificed a sheep, shaved his head and smeared his head with saffron (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone gets a dog, except a sheeping or hunting or a farm dog, a qirat of his reward will be deducted daily (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mughaffal: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Were dogs not a species of creature I should command that they all be killed; but kill every pure black one (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) ordered to kill dogs, and we were even killing a dog which a woman brought with her from the desert. Afterwards he forbade to kill them, saying: Confine yourselves to the type which is black (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Adi b. Hatim:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: When the animal at which you shot falls in water, is drowned, and dies, do not eat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuTha'labah al-Khushani: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said about the game hunted by a dog: If you set off your dog and have mentioned Allah's name, eat (it), even if it eats any of it; and eat what your hands return you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Adi ibn Hatim: Messenger of Allah, one of us shoots at the game, and follows its mark for two or three days, and then finds it dead, and there is his arrow (pierced) in it, may he eat it? He said: Yes, if he wishes, or he said: he may eat if he wishes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuTha'labah al-Khushani: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: AbuTha'labah, eat what returns to you by your bow and your dog. Ibn Harb's version adds: "The trained (dog), and your hand, then eat, whether it has been slaughtered or not slaughtered (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuWaqid: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Whatever is cut off of an animal when it is alive is dead (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He said: He who sticks to a king is perverted. This version adds: The nearer a servant (of Allah) goes to a king, the farther he keeps away from Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuTha'labah al-Khushani: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When you shoot your arrow (and the animal goes out of your sight) and you come three days later on it, and in it there is your arrow, then eat provided it has not stench (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: It is the duty of a Muslim man who has something which is to be given as bequest not to have it for two nights without having his will written regarding it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not leave dinars, dirhams, camels and goats, nor did he leave will for anything (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A man giving a dirham as sadaqah (charity) during his life is better than giving one hundred dirhams as sadaqah (charity) at the moment of his death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Dharr: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: Abu Dharr, I see you weak, and I like for you what I like for myself. Do not be a leader of two (persons), and do not be a guardian of an orphan. Abu Dawud said: This has been narrated only by the people of Egypt (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Qur'anic verse goes: "(It is prescribed when death approaches any of you), if he leaves any goods, that he may bequest to parents and next to kin." The bequest was made in this way until the verse of inheritance repealed it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Allah has appointed for everyone who has a right what is due to him, and no bequest must be made to an heir (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: I memorised (a tradition) from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): There is no orphanhood after puberty, and there is no silence for the whole day till the night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: When a man dies, his action discontinues from him except three things, namely, perpetual sadaqah (charity), or the knowledge by which benefit is acquired, or a pious child who prays for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:A man said: Messenger of Allah, my mother has died ; will it benefit her if I give sadaqah on her behalf ? He said: Yes. He said: I have a garden, and I call you to witness that I have given it as sadaqah on her behalf (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Knowledge has three categories; anything else is extra; a precise verse, or an established sunnah (practice), or a firm obligatory duty (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' bin 'Azib:The last verse revealed about the decease who left no descendants or ascendants: "They ask thee for the legal decision. Say: Allah directs (thus) about those who leave no descendants or ascendants as heirs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah : The wife of Sa'd b. al-Rabi said: Messenger of Allah, Sa'd died and left two daughters. He then narrated the rest of the tradition in a similar way. Abu Dawud said: This is the most correct tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Aswad b. Yazid:Mu'adh b. Jabal gave shares of inheritance to a sister and a daughter. He gave each of them half. He was at Yemen while the Prophet (ﷺ) was alive (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraydah: The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed a sixth to a grandmother if no mother is left to inherit before her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Divide the property among those whose share have been prescribed in the Book of Allah, and what remains from the prescribed shares goes to the nearest male heirs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdam: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: I am the heirs of Him who has none, freeing him from his liabilities, and inheriting what he possesses. A maternal uncle is the heir of Him who has none, freeing him from his liabilities, and inheriting his property (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: A man died leaving no heir but a slave whom he had emancipated. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) asked: Has he any heir? They replied: No, except a slave whom he had emancipated. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) assigned his estate to him (the emancipated slave) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wathilah ibn al-Asqa': The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A woman gets inheritance from the three following: one she has set free, a foundling, and her child about whom she has invoked a curse on herself if she was untrue in declaring he was not born out of wedlock (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Makhul: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) assigned the estate of a child of a woman about whom she had invoked a curse to her mother, and to her heirs after her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Shu'aib:On his father's authority, said that his grandfather reported from the Prophet (ﷺ) something similar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Usamah b. Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: A Muslim may not inherit from an infidel nor an infidel from a Muslim (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: people of two different religions would not inherit from one another (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Jabal: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Islam increases and does not diminish. He, therefore, appointed a Muslim heir (of a non-Muslim) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Al-Aswad al-Dili:Mu'adh bought the property of a Jew whose heir was a Muslim. He then narrated from the Prophet (ﷺ) to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: An estate which was divided in pre-Islamic period may follow the division in force then, but any estate in Islamic times must follow the division laid down by Islam (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: The right of inheritance belongs to only to the one who paid the price (of the slave) and patronised him by doing an act of gratitude (from eng-abudawud.txt)
(Narrated Tamim ad-Dari: Tamim asked: Messenger of Allah), what is the sunnah about a man who accepts Islam by advice and persuasion of a Muslim? He replied: He is the nearest to him in life and in death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling or giving away the right to inheritance by a manumitted slave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When an infant has raised its voice (and then dies), it will be treated as an heir (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jubair b. Mu'tim:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: There is no alliance in Islam, and Islam strengthened the alliance made during pre-Islamic days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) appointed Ubn Umm Makthum as a governor of Medina (in his absence) twice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdam ibn Ma'dikarib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) struck him on his shoulders and then said: You will attain success, Qudaym, if you die without having been a ruler, a secretary, or a chief (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) has a secretary named Sijill (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Rafi' ibn Khadij: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: The official who collects sadaqah (zakat) in a just manner is like him who fights in Allah's path till he returns home (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: One who wrongfully takes an extra tax (sahib maks) will not enter Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn Ishaq:Sahib maks means one who (receives) tithes (from) people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:We used to take the oath of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) to hear and obey, and he would tell: In What I am able (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never touched the hand of woman, but he received the oath of allegiance from her. When he received the oath of allegiance from her, she gave it to him, and he said: Go, I have received your oath of allegiance (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abd Alla b. Hisham, :who was a Companion, reported that his mother Zainab daughter of Humain went to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said: Messenger of Allah, receive the oath of allegiance from him. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He is Minor. He then wiped his head (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraidah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: When we appoint someone to an administrative post and provide him with an allowance, anything he takes beyond that is unfaithful dealing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: It is not on my own that I give you or withhold from you: I am just a treasure, putting it where I have been commanded (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) was brought a pouch containing bead and divided it among free women and slave women. Aisha said: My father used to divide things between free men and slave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: I am nearer to the believers than themselves, so if anyone leaves property, it goes to his heirs, and if anyone leaves debt and dependants, let the matter come to me and I shall be responsible (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone leaves property, it goes to his heirs. And if anyone leaves dependents (without resources), they come to us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir b. 'Abd Allah :The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: I am nearer to every believer than himself, and if anyone leaves, it goes to his heirs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Nafi':That Ibn 'Umar was presented before the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of Uhud, when he was fourteen years old, but he did not allow him. He was again presented to him on the day of Khandaq (the battle of Trench) when he was fifteen years old, he allowed him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Allah, the Exalted, has placed truth on Umar's tongue and he speaks it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBakr: AbutTufayl said: Fatimah came to AbuBakr asking him for the inheritance of the Prophet (ﷺ). AbuBakr said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: If Allah, Most High, gives a Prophet some means of sustenance, that goes to his successor (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: Do not distribute dinars among my heirs: Whatever I left after contribution to my wives and provisions for my governor is sadaqah (alms). Abu Dawud said: 'Amil means the workers or laborers on the land (i.e. peasants) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Explaining the relatives of the Prophet (ﷺ) al-Saddi said:They are Banu 'Abd al-Muttalib (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by ‘Ali bin Hussain through a different chain of narrators. This version adds “He (the Prophet) did not provide her with a slave.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Amir Al Sha’bi said “The Prophet (ﷺ) had a special portion in the booty called safi. This would be a slave if he desired or a slave girl if he desired or a horse if he desired. He would choose it before taking out the fifth.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Awn said “I asked Muhammad about the portion of the prophet(ﷺ) and safi. He replied “A portion was taken for him along with the Muslims, even if he did not attend (the battle) and safi (special portion) was taken from the fifth before everything.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said “Safiyyah was called after the word safi (a special portion of the Prophet).” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas bin Malik said “Safiyyah first fell to Dihyat Al Kalbi, the she fell to the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: Umar said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had transaction with the Jews of Khaybar on condition that we should expel them when we wish. If anyone has property (with them), he should take it back, for I am going to expel the Jews. So he expelled them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas bin Malik said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) attacked Khaibar and we captured it by conquest. He then gathered the captives of war.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl bin Abi Hathmah said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) divide Khaibar into two halves. One half was reserved for his emergency and needs, the other half was meant for the Muslims. He divided among them into eighteen portions.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Shihab said “It has reached me that the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) conquered Khaibar by force. Its inhabitants who came down (from their fortress) for expulsion came down after fighting.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn Shihab: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took out his fifth from the booty of Khaybar, and divided the rest of it among those who attended the battle and among those who were away from it but attend the expedition of al-Hudaybiyyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Umar said “Had I not considered the last Muslim, I would have any town I conquered divided as the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) had divided Khaibar.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Wahb bin Munabbih said “I sked Jabir “Did they get any booty on the day of conquest (of Makkah)? He replied, No (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abd Allah said that he was told by ‘Umar bin Al Khattab that he heard the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) say “I will certainly expel the Jews and the Christians from Arabia and I shall leave only Muslims in it.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by ‘Umar through a different chain of narrators.” He said “The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) said to the same effect. The former version is ore perfect.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Two qiblahs in one land are not right (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Malik said “’Umar expelled the Jews of Najran and Fadak.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “Whatever town you come to and stay in , your portion is in it, but whatever town disobeys Allaah and His Apostle a fifth of it goes to Allaah and His Apostle and what remains is yours.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik ; Uthman ibn AbuSulayman: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Khalid ibn al-Walid to Ukaydir of Dumah. He was seized and they brought him to him (i.e. the Prophet). He spared his life and made peace with him on condition that he should pay jizyah (poll-tax) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Jabal: When the Prophet (ﷺ) sent him to the Yemen, he ordered to take from everyone who had reached puberty one dinar or its equivalent in Mu'afiri garment of Yemen origin (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A simiar tradition from the Prophet(ﷺ) has also been transmitted by Mu’adh through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said “When the Prophet of the Persians dies, Iblis (satan) led them to Mazdaism.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubaydullah: Harb ibn Ubaydullah told on the authority of his grandfather, his mother's father, that he had it on the authority of his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Tithes are to be levied on Jews and Christians, but not on Muslims (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Harb bin ‘Ubaid Allah from the Prophet (ﷺ) to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. This version has the word kharaj(land tax) instead of ‘ushr (tithes) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A man reported from Bakr bin Wa’il on the authority of his maternal uncle as saying, I said “Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) may I levy tithe on my people.?” He replied “Tithes are to be levied on Jews and Christians.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Jizyah is not to be levied on a Muslim (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Muhammad bin Kathir said “Sufyan was asked to explain the tradition mentioned above.” He said “When he embraces Islam, no jizyah will be levied on him.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Mu’awiyah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect as narrated by Abu Taubah. This version has “I have nothing to pay from me. The Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) thereupon kept silence and this displeased me.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Iyad ibn Himar: I presented a she-camel to the Prophet (ﷺ). He asked: Have you embraced Islam? I replied: No. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: I have been prohibited to accept the present of polytheists (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Alqamah ibn Wa'il: The Prophet (ﷺ) bestowed land in Hadramawt as fief (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by ‘Alqamah bin Wa’il through a different chain of narrators.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Amr ibn Hurayth: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) demarcated a house with a bow at Medina for me. He said: I shall give you more. I shall give you more (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Muhammad bin Al hasan Al Mukhzumi said “The sentence “that which is not reached by the Camel hoofs” means that the Camels eat (the arak trees) within the reach of their heads. So the land (where the arak trees are growing) may be protected beyond such a region (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Asma' daughter of AbuBakr: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) assigned to az-Zubayr palm-trees as a fief (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Asmar ibn Mudarris: I came to the Prophet (ﷺ), and took the oath of allegiance to him. He said: If anyone reaches a water which has not been approached before by any Muslim, it belongs to him. The people, therefore, went out running and marking (on the land) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) gave az-Zubayr the land as a fief up to the reach of his horse when he runs. He, therefore, made his horse run until it stopped. He then threw his flog. Thereupon he said: Give him (the land) up to the point where his flog has reached (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'id ibn Zayd: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone brings barren land into cultivation, it belongs to him, and the unjust vein has no right (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone surrounds a land with a wall, it belongs to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hisham said “The unjust vein means that a man implants a tree in the land of another man so that they may be entitled to it. Malik said “The unjust vein means that a man takes (a thing) digs a pit and implants a tree without (his) right (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Jabal: He who put the necklace of jizyah in his neck abandoned the way followed by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al Sa’b bin Jaththamah reported the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) as saying “There is no (permission for) protected land except for Allaah and His Prophet. Ibn Shihab said “It has reached me that the Apostle of Allaah(ﷺ) protected Naqi’.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'b ibn Jaththamah: The Prophet (ﷺ) protected Naqi and said: There is no (permission for) protected land except for Allah Most High (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A fifth is payable on buried treasure (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al hasan said “Rikaz means treasure buried in pre Islamic times.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) many times say: When a servant of Allah is accustomed to do a good work, then becomes ill or goes on journey, what was accustomed to do when he was well and staying at home will be recorded for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm al-Ala: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) visited me while I was sick. He said: Be glad, Umm al-Ala' for Allah removes the sins of a Muslim for his illness as fire removes the dross of gold and silver (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) would visit me (during my illness) riding neither a mule nor a pony (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:If a man visits a patient in the evening, seventy thousand angels come along with him seeking forgiveness from Allah for him till the morning, and he will have a garden in the Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:When Sa'd b. Mu'adh suffered affliction on the day of Trench (i.e. the battle of Trench) a man shot an arrow in the vein of his hand. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pitched a tent for him the mosque so that he might visit him from near (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd ibn Arqam: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) visited me while I was suffering from pain in my eyes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah daughter of Sa'd:That her father said: I had a complaint at Mecca. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to pay a sick-visit to me. He put his hand on my forehead, wiped my chest and belly, and then said: O Allah! heal up Sa'd and complete his immigration (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Feed the hungry, visit the sick and free the captive. Sufyan said: al-'ani means captive (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone visits a sick whose time (of death) has not come, and says with him seven times: I ask Allah, the Mighty, the Lord of the mighty Throne, to cure you, Allah will cure him from that disease (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: No one of you should wish for death for any calamity that befalls him, but he should say: O Allah! cause me to live so long as my life is better for me ; and cause me to die where death is better for me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: No one of you should wish for death. He then mentioned the rest of the tradition in a similar manner (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubayd ibn Khalid as-Sulami,: A man from the Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ), said: The narrator Sa'd ibn Ubaydah narrated sometimes from the Prophet (ﷺ) and sometimes as a statement of Ubayd (ibn Khalid): The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Sudden death is a wrathful catching (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir b. 'Abd Allah :I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say three days before his death: No one of you dies but he had good faith in Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: When the time of his death came, he called for new clothes and put on them. He then said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: A deceased will be raised in the clothes in which he died (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu’adh bin Jabal :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone's last words are "There is no god but Allah" he will enter Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa’id Al Khudri :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Recite to those of you who are dying "There is no god but Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) was covered with striped Yemen garment (after his death) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ma'qil ibn Yasar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Recite Surah Ya-Sin over your dying men. This is the version of Ibn al-Ala (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:When Zaid b. Harithah, Ja'far and 'Abd Allah b. Rawahah were killed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat down in the mosque and grief was visible in his face. Then he (the narrator) mentioned the rest of the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm 'Atiyyah :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited us to wail (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the wailing woman and the woman who listens to her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Ja'far: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Prepare food for the family of Ja'far for there came upon them an incident which has engaged them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: A man had a shot of arrow in his chest or throat (the narrator is doubtful). So he died. He was shrouded in his clothes as he was. The narrator said: We were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded to remove weapons and skins from the martyrs of Uhud, and that they should be buried with their blood and clothes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The martyrs of Uhud were not washed, and they were buried with their blood. No prayer was offered over them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by Hamzah who was disfigured (after being killed). He did not offer prayer over any martyr except him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by al-Laith through a different chain of the same effect. This version adds:He combined two persons from among the martyrs of Uhud in one garment (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not unveil your thigh, and do not look at the thigh of the living and the dead (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Umm 'Atiyyah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. This version adds:We braided her hair in three plaits (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned has also been transmitted by Umm 'Atiyyah through a different chain of narrators. This version has:we braided her hair in three plaits and placed them behind her back, one plait of the front side and the two side plaits (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm 'Atiyyah :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to them while washing her daughter: Begin with her right side, and the places where the ablution is performed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The above mentioned tradition has also been transmitted by Umm 'Atiyyah through a different chain of narrators. This version has:(Wash her) seven times or more if you think fit (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qatadah:Muhammad b. Sirin used to learn how to wash the dead from Umm 'Atiyyah: he would was with lotus leaves twice and with water and camphor for the third time (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was shrouded in a garment of Yemeni stuff, it was then removed from him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you dies, and he possesses something, he should be shrouded in the garment of the Yemeni stuff (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was shrouded in three garments of white Yemeni stuff, among which was neither a shirt nor a turban (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was shrouded in three garments made in Najran: two garments and one shirt in which he died. Abu Dawud said: The narrator 'Uthman said: In three garments: two red garments and a shirt in which he died (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: Do not be extravagant in shrouding, for I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Do not be extravagant in shrouding, for it will be quickly decayed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubadah ibn as-Samit: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The best shroud is a lower garment and one which covers the whole body, and the best sacrifice is a horned ram (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa’id Al Khudri :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: The best of your perfumes is musk (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to take a bath on account of sexual defilement, on Friday, for cupping and washing the dead (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who washes the dead should take a bath, and he who carries him should perform ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that he kissed Uthman ibn Maz'un while he was dead, and I saw that tears were flowing (from his eyes) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The people saw fire (light) in the graveyard and they went there. They found that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in a grave and he was saying: Give me your companion. This was a man who used to raise his voice while mentioning the name of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: On the day of Uhud we brought the martyrs to bury them (at another place), but the crier of the Prophet (ﷺ) came and said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) has commanded you to bury the martyrs at the place where they fell. So we took them back (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Malik ibn Hubayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If any Muslim dies and three rows of Muslims pray over him, it will assure him (of Paradise). When Malik considered those who accompanied a bier to be a few, he divided them into three rows in accordance with this tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm 'Atiyyah :We were forbidden accompany the biers, but it was not stressed upon us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: If any Muslim dies and forty men associate nothing with Allah stand over his bier. Allah will accept them as intercessors for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Prophet (said) said: A bier should not be followed by a loud voice (of wailing) or fire. Abu Dawud said: Harun (one of the narrators) added: "And it should not be preceded (with those) either (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amir b. Rabi'ah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: When you see a funeral, stand up for it till it leaves you behind or it is placed (on the ground) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up for a funeral (to show respect) and thereafter he sat down (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubadah ibn as-Samit: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to stand up for a funeral until the corpse was placed in the grave. A learned Jew (once) passed him and said: This is how we do. The Prophet (ﷺ) sat down and said: Sit down and act differently from them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir b. Samurah:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered funeral prayer over Ibn al-Dahdah while we were present. He was then brought a horse, and it was tied until he rode it. It then began to gallop and we were running around it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Salim reported on the authority of his father:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr and Umar walking before the funeral (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: Walk quickly with a funeral, for if the dead person was good it is a good condition to which you are sending him on, but it he was otherwise it is an evil of which you are riding yourselves (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Uyaynah also reported the aforementioned tradition (No. 3176) through a different chain of transmitters. This version goes:We attended the funeral of AbdurRahman ibn Samurah and he said: He (AbuBakrah) made his mule run quickly and pointed with the flog (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBarzah al-Aslami: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not pray over Ma'iz ibn Malik, and he did not prohibit to pray over him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Ibrahim, the son of the Prophet (ﷺ), died when he was eighteen months old. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not pray over him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:I swear by Allah, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed over Suhail b. al-Baida' in the mosque (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:I swear by Allah, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed in the mosque over the two sons of al-Baida': Suhail and his brother (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone prays over the dead in the mosque, there is nothing on him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah bin Jundab:I prayed behing the Prophet (ﷺ) over a woman who died in childbirth, and he stood opposite her waist (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Sha'bi:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed a grave dug freshly. They arranged a row and uttered four takbirs over it. I asked al-Sha'bi: Who told you ? He replied: A reliable person whom 'Abd Allah b. 'Abbas attended (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Talhah b. 'Abd Allah b. 'Awf:I prayed over a dead person along with Ibn 'Abbas. He recited Surat al-Fatihah and he said: This is the Sunnah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When you pray over the dead, make a sincere supplication for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:A negress (or a youth) used to sweep the mosque. The Prophet (ﷺ) missed him, and when he asked about him the people told him that he had died. He said: Why have you not informed me ? He said: Lead me to his grave. So they led him and he prayed over him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave the people news of death of Negus on the day on which he died, took them out to the place of prayer, drew them up in rows and said: "Allah is Most Great" four times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Breaking a dead man's bone is like breaking it when he is alive (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The niche in the side of the grave is for us and the excavation in the middle is for others (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Amir: Ali, Fadl and Usamah ibn Zayd washed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and they put him in his grave. Marhab or Ibn AbuMarhab told me that they also made AbdurRahman ibn Awf join them. When Ali became free, he said: The People of the man serve him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Marhab:That 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Awf alighted in the grave of the Prophet (ﷺ). He said: I still seem to see the four of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Ishaq said:Al-Harith left his will that Abdullah ibn Yazid should offer his funeral prayer; so he prayed over him. He then put him in the grave from the side of his legs and said: This is a Sunnah (model practice of the Prophet) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: We went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to the funeral of a man of the Ansar, but when we reached the grave, the niche in the side had not yet been made, so the Prophet (ﷺ) sat down facing the qiblah, and we sat down along with him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: When the Prophet (ﷺ) placed the dead in the grave, he said: In the name of Allah, and following the Sunnah of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). This is Muslim's version (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Humaid b. Hilal with a different chain of transmitters and to the same effect. This version adds:"And deepen (the graves) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Sa'd b. Hisham b. 'Amir with a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hayyaj al-Asadi:'Ali said to me: I am sending you on the same mission as the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent me that I should not leave a high grave without leveling it and an image without obliterating it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is no slaughtering (at the grave) in Islam. 'Abd al-Razzaq said: They used to slaughter cows or sheep at grave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir:One day the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out and prayed over the martyrs of Uhud like his prayer over the dead, and then returned (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Yazid b. Habib:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed over the martyrs of Uhud after eight years like a man who bids farewell to the living and dead (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) forbid to sit on the grave, to plaster it with gypsum, and to build any structure over it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Allah's curse to be on the Jews, they made the graves of their Prophets mosques (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: It is better that one of you should sit on the live coals which burns his clothing and come in contact with his skin than that he should sit on a grave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Marthad al-Ghanawi :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Do not sit on the graves, and do not pray facing them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: When a servant (of Allah) is placed in his grave, and his Companions depart from him, he hears the stepping sound of their shoes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:A man was buried with my father. I had a desire at heart for that (place for my burial). So I took him out after six months. I did not find any change (in his body) except a few hair that touched the earth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraidah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: I forbade you to visit graves, but you may now visit them, for in visiting them there is a reminder (of death) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed women who visit graves, those who built mosques over them and erected lamps (there) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out to the graveyard and said: Peace be upon you, inhabitants of the dwellings who are of the community of the believers. If Allah wills we shall join you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been narrated by Ibn 'Abbas through a different chain of transmitters to the effect as narrated by Sulaiman saying:"in two garments (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Imran ibn Husayn: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone swears a false oath in confinement, he should make his seat in Hell on account of his (act) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: One should not take a false oath at this pulpit of mine even on a green tooth-stick; otherwise he will make his abode in Hell, or Hell will be certain for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not swear by your fathers, or by your mothers, or by rivals to Allah; and swear by Allah only, and swear by Allah only when you are speaking the truth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) found 'Umar al-Khattab in a caravan while he was swearing by his father. So he said: Allah forbids you to swear by forefathers. If anyone swears, he must swear by Allah or keep silence (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn 'Umar through a different chain of narrators to the same effect up to the words "by your fathers". This version adds:" 'Umar said: I swear by Allah, I never swore by it personally or reporting it from others (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa'id ibn Ubaydah said:Ibn Umar heard a man swearing: No, I swear by the Ka'bah. Ibn Umar said to him: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: He who swears by anyone but Allah is polytheist (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Referring to the story of a bedouin, Talhah b. 'Ubaid Allah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:He became successful, by his father, if he speaks the truth, he will enter paradise, by his father, if he speaks truth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraydah ibn al-Hasib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who swears by Amanah (faithfulness) is not one of us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraydah ibn al-Hasib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone takes an oath and says: I am free from Islam; now if he is a liar (in his oath), he will not return to Islam with soundness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Yusuf ibn Abdullah ibn Salam: I saw that the Prophet (ﷺ) put a date on a loaf and said: This is a thing eaten with bread (condiments) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Yusuf b. 'Abd Allah b. Salam through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone says when swearing an oath: "If Allah wills," he makes an exception (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone swears an oath and makes an exception, he may fulfil it if he wishes and break it if he wishes without any accountability for breaking (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The oath which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) often used was this: No, by Him who overturns the hearts (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) swore an oath strongly, he said: No, by Him in Whose hand is the soul of AbulQasim (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) swore an oath, it was: No, and I beg forgiveness of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Laqit ibn Amir: We came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in a delegation. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said: By the age of thy god (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: AbuBakr adjured the Prophet (ﷺ). The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not adjure an oath (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn 'Abbas through a different chain of narrators. In this version there is no mention of the word qasam (oath). It has the words:"He did not inform him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by 'Abd al-Rahman b. Abi Bakr through a different chain of narrators. This version adds on the authority of Salim:"Expiation (for breaking the oath) has not reached me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: A vow is binding in those things by which the pleasure of Allah is sought, and an oath to break ties of relationship is not binding (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Muhammad b. Muhmmad b. Khattab Abu 'Umar :We had a makkuk which was called Makkuk Khalid. Its capacity was two measurements according to the measurements of Harun. The narrator said: The sa' of Khalid was the sa' of Hisham b. 'Abd al-Malik (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: A vow does not provide for the son of Adam anything which I did not decree for him, but a vow draws it. A Divine decree is one which I have destined, it is extracted from a miser. He is given what he was not given before (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone vows to obey Allah, let him obey Him, but if anyone vows to disobey Him, let him not disobey Him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: No vow must be taken to do an act of disobedience, and the atonement for it is the same as for an oath (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir: Uqbah consulted the Prophet (ﷺ) about his sister who took a vow to perform hajj barefooted and bareheaded. So he said: Command her to cover her head and to ride, and to fast three days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Sa'id al-Ru'aini with the same chain as narrated by Yahya (b. Sa'id) and to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:That the sister of 'Uqbah b. 'Amir took vow to walk on foot to the Ka'bah. Thereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered her to ride and slaughter a sacrificial animal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Ikrimah: The tradition about the sister of 'Uqbah b. 'Amir as narrated by Hisham, but he made no mention of the sacrificial animal. In his version he said: Ask your sister to ride. Abu Dawud said: Khalid narrated it from 'Ikrimah to the same effect as narrated by Hisham (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir al-Juhani:My sister took a vow to walk on foot to the House of Allah (i.e. Ka'bah). She asked me to consult the Prophet (ﷺ) about her. So I consulted the Prophet (ﷺ). He said: Let her walk and ride (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) while going round the Ka'bah passed a man who was led with a ring of bridle in his nose. The Prophet (ﷺ) cut it off with his hand and ordered to lead him by catching his hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The sister of Uqbah ibn Amir took a vow that she would perform hajj on foot, and she was unable to do so. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah is not in need of the walking of your sister. She must ride and offer a sacrificial camel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir al-Juhani: Uqbah said to the Prophet (ﷺ): My sister has taken a vow that she will walk to the House of Allah (the Ka'bah). Thereupon he said: Allah will not do anything of the walking of your sister to the House of Allah (i.e. the Ka'bah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:Sa'd b. 'Ubadah asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): My Mother has died and she could not fulfill her vow which she had taken. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone dies when some fast due from him has been unfulfilled, his heir must fast on his behalf (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ka'b bin Malik:To the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when his repentance was accepted: I should divest myself of my property. He then mentioned a similar tradition up to the words, "better for you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: The atonement for a vow is the same as for an oath. Abu Dawud said: This tradition has also been transmitted by 'Amr b. al-Harith from Ka'b b. 'Alqamah, from Ibn Shamasah on the authority of 'Uqbah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by 'Uqbah b. 'Amir from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:That 'Umar said: Messenger of Allah, I took a vow in pre-Islamic times that I would stay in the sacred mosque (Masjid Haram) as a devotion (i'tikaf). The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Fulfill your vow (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Qais b. Abi Gharazah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. This version has:"Lying and swearing have a place on i." 'Abd Allah al-Zuhri said: "Unprofitable speech and lying (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A time is certainly coming to mankind when only the receiver of usury will remain, and if he does not receive it, some of its vapour will reach him. Ibn Isa said: Some of its dust will reach him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the one who accepted usury, the one who paid it, the witness to it, and the one who recorded it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Shu'bah said:The memory of Sufyan was stronger than mine (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMusa al-Ash'ari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: After the grave sins which Allah has prohibited the greatest sin is that a man dies while he has debt due from him and does not leave anything to pay it off, and meets Him with it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Delay in payment (of debt) by a rich man is injunctive, but when one of you is referred to a wealthy man, he should accept the reference (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) owed me a debt and gave me something extra when he paid it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Ubadah b. al-Samit through a different chain of transmitters with some alternation. This version adds:"He said: If these classes differ, sell as you wish if payment is made on the spot (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Simak (b. Harb) with a different chain of narrators and to the same effect. The first version is more perfect. It does not mention the words "at the current rate (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah (ibn Jundub): The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade selling animals for animals when payment was to be made at a later date (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded him to equip an army, but the camels were insufficient. So he commanded him to keep back the young camels of sadaqah, and he was taking a camel to be replaced by two when the camels of sadaqah came (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) bought a slave for two slaves (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits on the tree for fruits by measure, and sale of grapes for raisins by measure, and sale of harvest for wheat by measure (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zaid b. Thabit:The Prophet (ﷺ) gave license for the sale of 'araya for dried dates and fresh dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sahl b. Abi Khathmah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits for dried dates, but gave license regarding the 'araya for its sale on the basis of a calculation of their amount. But those who buy them can eat them when fresh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave license regarding the sale of 'araya when the amount was less then five wasqs or five wasqs. Dawud b. al-Husain was doubtful. Abu Dawud said: The tradition by Jabir indicates up to four wasqs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Rabbihi b. Sa'id al-Ansari said:'Ariyyah means that a man gives another man a palm-tree on loan, or it means that reserves one or two palm-trees from his property for his personal use, then he sells for dried dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Ishaq said:'Araya means that a man lends another man some palm-trees, but he (the owner) feels inconvenient that the man looks after the trees (by frequent visits). He (the borrower) sells them (to the owner) by calculation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits till they were clearly in good condition, forbidding it both to the seller and to the buyer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling palm-trees till the dates began to ripen, and ears of corn till they were white and were safe from blight, forbidding it both to the buyer and to the seller (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to sell spoils of war till they are appointed, and to sell palm trees till they are safe from every blight, and a man praying without tying belt (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits until they are ripened (tushqihah). He was asked: What do you mean by their ripening (ishqah)? He replied: They become red or yellow, and they are eaten (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the sale of grapes till they became black and the sale of grain till it had become hard (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits till they were clearly in good condition , and (ordered that) they should not be sold but for dinar or dirham except Araya (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade sale of fruits for a number of years. One of the two narrators (Abu al-Zubair and Sa'id b. Mina') mentioned the words "sale for years" (bai' al-sinin instead of al-mu'awamah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the type of sale which involves risk (or uncertainty) and a transaction determined by throwing stones (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Said al-Khudri through a different chain of narrators from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to the same effect as narrated by both Sufyan and 'Abd al-Razzaq (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the transaction called habal al-habalah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been narrated by Ibn 'Umar from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of transmitters. He said:Habal al-habalah means that a she-camel delivers an offspring and then the offspring which it delivers becomes pregnant (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) having said: Allah, Most High, says: "I make a third with two partners as long as one of them does not cheat the other, but when he cheats him, I depart from them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Urwat al-Bariqi through a different chain of narrators. The wordings of this version are different from those of the previous one (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: I Ammar, and Sa'd became partners in what we would receive on the day of Badr. Sa'd then brought two prisoners, but I and Ammar did not bring anything (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd: We used to lease land for what grew by the streamlets and for what was watered from them. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade us to do that, and commanded us to lease if for gold or silver (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ayyub said:Ya'la b. Hakim wrote to me: I heard Sulaiman b. Yasar narrating the tradition to the same effect as narrated by 'Ubaid Allah and through the same chain (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Rafi' ibn Khadij: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone sows in other people's land without their permission, he has no right to any of the crop, but he may have what it cost him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir b. 'Abd Allah :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade muzabanah, muhaqalah and thunya except it is known (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir b. 'Abd Allah :I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: If any of you does not leave mukhabarah, he should take notice of war from Allah and His Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zaid b. Thabit:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade mukhabarah. I asked: What is mukhabarah ? He replied: That you have the land (for cultivation) for half, a third, or a quarter (of the produce) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) made an agreement with the people of Khaibar to work and cultivate in return for half of the fruits or produce (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) handed over the Jews of Khaibar the palm trees and the land of Khaibar on condition that they should employ what belonged to them in working on them, and that he should have half of the fruits (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been narrated by Ja'far b. Burqan through his chain and to the same effect. This version has:He said: He assessed, and after the words of kull safara' wa baida', he said: that is, gold and silver will belong to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: Ibn Rawahah assessed them (the amount of dates) at forty thousand wasqs, and when Ibn Rawahah gave them option, the Jews took the fruits in their possession and twenty thousand wasqs of dates were due from them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Sa'id al-Khudri form the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Rafi' ibn Khadij: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The earnings of a cupper are impure, the price paid for a dog is impure, and the hire paid to a prostitute is impure (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Muhayyisah ibn Ka'b: Muhayyisah asked permission of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) regarding hire of the cupper, but he forbade him. He kept on asking his permission, and at last he said to him: Feed your watering camel with it and feed your slave with it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got him self cupped and gave the cupper his wages. Had he considered it impure, he would not have given it (wage) to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas b. Malik :That Abu Tibah cupped the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he ordered that a sa' of dates be given to him, also ordering his people to remit some of his dues (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade earnings of slave-girls (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Rafi' b. Khadij:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade earnings of a slave-girl unless it is known from where it came (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the price paid for a dog, the hire paid to a prostitute, and the gift given to a soothsayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade (taking hire for) a stallion's covering (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Majidah al-Sahmi from 'Umar b. al-Khattab through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Majidah quoted 'Umar b. al-Khattab as saying:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say ... narrating the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone buys a slave who possesses property, his property belongs to the seller unless the buyer makes a proviso (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: None of you must buy in opposition to one another ; and do not go out to meet the merchandise, (but one must wait) till it is brought down to the market (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade to bid against one another (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade a townsman to sell for a man from the desert. I asked: What do you mean by the selling of a townsman for a man from the desert ? He replied: He should not be a broker for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: A townsman must not sell for a man from the desert ; and leave people alone, Allah will give them provision from one another (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone buys sheep whose udders have been tied up, he has option for three days: he may return it if he desires with a sa' of any grain, not (necessarily) wheat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone buys a sheep whose udders have been tied up, he has option for three days (for decision). If he returns it, he should return with it wheat equal to its milk or double of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Alqamah b. 'Abdullah: On the authority of his father, who said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to break the coins of the Muslims current among them except for some defect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Yahya said:Sufyan disapproved of the interpretation of the phrase "has nothing to do with us" as "not like us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Each one of the two parties in a business has an option (to annul it) against the other party so long as they have not separated, except in a conditional bargain (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn 'Umar from the Prophet (ﷺ) to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:"Or one of them tells the other: "Exercise the right (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone rescinds a sale with a Muslim, Allah will cancel his slip, on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone makes two transactions combined in one bargain, he should have the lesser of the two or it will involve usury (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to Medina, they were paying one, two and three years in advance for fruits, so he said: Those who pay in advance for anything, must do for a specified measure and weight with a specified time fixed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn Abi al-Mujahid through a different chain of narrators. This version has:"to those people who did not possess these things." Abu Dawud said: What is correct is Ibn Abi al-Mujahid. Shu'bah made a mistake in it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone pays in advance he must not transfer it to someone else before he receives it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If you were to sell dried dates to your brother and they were smitten by blight, it will not be allowable for you to take your brother's property unjustly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ata said:Blight means anything which obviously damages (the crop), by rain, hail, locust, blast of wind, or fire (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Yahya b. Sa'id said:Blight is not effective when less than one-third of goods are damaged. Yayha said: That has been the established practice of Muslims (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Excess water should not be withheld so as to prevent (cattle) by it from grass (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A man: A man from the immigrants of the Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said: I participated in battle three times along with the Prophet (ﷺ). I heard him say: Muslims have common share in three (things). grass, water and fire (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Iyas ibn Abd: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the sale of excess water (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade payment for dog and cat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade payment for cat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas'ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the price paid for a dog, the hire paid to prostitute, and the gift given to a soothsayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the price paid for a dog; if someone comes to ask for the price of a dog, fill his hand-palm with dust (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Juhaifah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)forbade the price paid for a dog (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The price paid for a dog, the price given to a soothsayer, and the hire paid to a prostitute are not lawful (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Allah forbade wine and the price paid for it, and forbade dead meat and the price paid for it, and forbade swine and the price paid for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Yazid b. Abi Habib said:Jabir wrote to me a similar tradition. But he did not say in this version "It is forbidden (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughirah ibn Shu'bah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who sold wine should shear the flesh of swine (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:When the last verses of Surat al-Baqarah were revealed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out and recited them to us and siad: Trading in wine has been forbidden (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by al-A'mash to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:"The last verses about usury (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone buys grain, he must not sell it till receives it in full (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar: During the time of Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) we used to buy grain, and he sent a man to us who ordered us to move it from the spot where we had bought it to some other place, before we sold it without weighing or measuring it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said: They (the people) used to buy grain in the upper part of the market in the same spot without measuring or weighing it. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade them to sell it there before removing it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to sell grain which one buys by measurement until one receives it in full (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone buys grain, he should not sell it until he measures it. Abu Bakr added in his version: I asked Ibn 'Abbas: Why ? He replied: Do you not see that they sell (grain) for gold, but the grain is still with the seller (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone buys a grain, he should not sell it until he takes possession of it. Sulaiman b. Harb said: Until he receives it in full. Musaddad added: Ibn 'Abbas said: And I think that everything is like grain (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:I saw that during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) the people were beaten when they bought grain on the same spot and sold it there without moving it to their houses (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hakim ibn Hizam: Hakim asked (the Prophet): Messenger of Allah, a man comes to me and wants me to sell him something which is not in my possession. Should I buy it for him from the market? He replied: Do not sell what you do not possess (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The contractual obligation of a slave is three days (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Profit follows responsibility (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Qasim b. 'Abd al-Rahman reported on the authority of his father:Ibn Mas'ud sold slaves to al-Ash'ath b. Qais. He then narrated the rest of the tradition to the same effect with some variation of words (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: There is the right of option regarding everything which is shared, whether a dwelling or a garden. It is not lawful to sell before informing one's partner, but if he sells without informing him, he has the greatest right to it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) decreed the right to buy the neighboring property applicable to everything which is not divided, but when boundaries are fixed and separate roads made, there is no option (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When land has been divided and boundaries have been set up, there is no right of pre-emption in it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Rafi':The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: A neighbor has the best claim to the house or land of the neighbor (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A neighbour has the best claim to the house or land of the neighbour (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The neighbour is most entitled to the right of pre-emption, and he should wait for its exercise even if he is absent, when the two properties have one road (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone becomes insolvent and the man (i.e. creditor) finds his very property with him, he is more entitled to it than anyone else (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated ash-Sha'bi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone leaves an animal at a place of perishing and another man brings it to life, it belongs to him who brings it to life (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone finds his very property with a man, he is more entitled to it (than anyone else), and the buyer should pursue the one who sold it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Pay the deposit to him who deposited it with you, and do not betray him who betrayed you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) used to accept a gift and make return for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: I swear by Allah, I shall not accept gift from anyone after this day except from an immigrant Qarashi, an Ansari a Dawsi or a Thaqafi (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: One who seeks to take back a gift like the one who returns to it vomit. Hammam said: "And Qatadah said: We regard vomiting as unlawful (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUmamah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone intercedes for his brother and he presents a gift to him for it and he accepts it, he approaches a great door of the doors of usury (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Bashir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Act equally between your children; Act equally between your sons (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Shu'aib:On his father's authority, said that his grandfather reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: It is not permissible for a woman to present a gift from the property which she has in her possession when her husband owns her chastity (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: It is not permissible for a woman to present a gift (from her husband's property) except with the permission of her husband (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: Life tenancy is permissible (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Samurah from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) has saying: What is given in life-tenancy belongs to the one to whom it was given (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone is given life-tenancy, it belongs to him and to his descendants. His descendants who inherit him will inherit from it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been narrated by Jabir from the Prophet (ﷺ) to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. Abu Dawud said:A similar tradition has also been transmitted by al-Laith b. Sa'd from al-Zuhri, from Abu Salamah from Jabir (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone has property given him in life-tenancy for the use of himself and his descendants, it belongs to the one to whom it is given and does not return to the one who gave it, because he gave a gift which may be inherited (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :The life-tenancy which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) allowed was only that one should say: It is for you and your descendants. When he says: It is yours as long as you live, it returns to its owner (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not give property to go to the survivor and do not give life-tenancy. If anyone is given something to the survivor or given life-tenancy, it goes to his heirs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Life-tenancy is lawful for the one to whom it is given and donation of property to go to the survivor is lawful to whom it is given (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Mujahid said:'Umra' means that a man says to another man: It belongs to you so long as you live. When he says that, it belongs to him and to his heirs. Ruqba means that a man says to another: From me and from you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: The hand which takes is responsible till it pays. Then al-Hasan forgot and said: (If you give something on loan to a man), he is your depositor ; there is no compensation (for it) on him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Ata from some people of the descendants of Safwan saying:The Prophet (ﷺ) borrowed. He then transmitted the rest of the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who has been appointed a judge has been killed without a knife (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who has been appointed a judge among the people has been killed without a knife (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone seeks the office of judge among Muslims till he gets it and his justice prevails over his tyranny, he will go to Paradise; but the man whose tyranny prevails over his justice will go to Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"If any do fail to judge (by the light of) what Allah has revealed, they are (no better than) unbelievers" up to "wrongdoers." These three verses were revealed about the Jews, particularly about Quraizah and al-Nadir (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Buradah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:"We will never employ or we shall not employ (the narrator is doubtful) in our work one who wants it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the one who bribes and the one who takes bribe (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Umm Salamah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying when two men were disputing over inheritance and old things:I decide between you on the basis of my opinion in cases about which no revelation has been sent down to me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: Umar said while he was (sitting) on the pulpit: O people, the opinion from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was right, because Allah showed (i.e. inspired) him; but from us it is sheer conjecture and artifice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Mu'adh bin Mu'adh said:Abu 'Uthman al-Shami, whose name is Hariz bin 'Uthman, told me. I think I did not see anyone from Syria better than him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn az-Zubayr: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave the decision that the two adversaries should be made to sit in front of the judge (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd al-Rahman bin Abi Bakrah reported on the authority of his father that he wrote to his son:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: A judge should not decide between the two while he is in anger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:The Qur'anic verse: "If they do come to thee, either judge between them, or decline to interfere" was abrogated by the verse: "So judge between them by what Allah hath revealed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Mu'adh bin Jabal said that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent him to the Yemen... He then narrated the rest of the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn 'Umar from the Prophet (ﷺ) through different chain of narrators to the same effect. In this version he also said:"He who assits in a dispute unjustly deserves the anger of Allah, Most High (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The testimony of a nomad Arab against a townsman is not allowable (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Uqbah bin al-Harith to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. Abu Dawud said:Hammad bin Zaid looked at al-Harith bin 'Umair and said: He is from reliable narrators from Ayyub (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave a decision on the basis of an oath and a single witness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Amr bin Dinar through a different chain of narrators and to the same effect. Salamah has in his version:'Amr said: In the rights (of the people) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMusa al-Ash'ari: Two men claimed a camel or an animal and brought the case to the Holy Prophet (ﷺ). But as neither of them produced any proof, the Holy Prophet (ﷺ) declared that they should share it equally (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Sa'id through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Qatadah through a different chain of narrators to the effect that two men laid claim camel and both of them produced witness so the prophet (peace be upon him) divided it in halves between them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: Two men disputed about some property and brought the case to the Holy Prophet (ﷺ), but neither of them could produce any proof. So the Holy Prophet (ﷺ) said: Cast lots about the oath whatever it may be, whether they like it or dislike it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu hurairah reported the holy prophet (peace be upon him) as saying:When two men dislike the oath or like it,lots will be cost about it. Salamah said on the authority of Ma’mar who said: when the two are compelled to take an oath (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by sa’id b. ‘Urubah through the chain as narrated by Ibn Minhal. This version has :About an animal and they had no proof. So the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered to cast lots about the oath (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Abi Mulaikah said:Ibn ‘Abbas wrote to me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)had defendant should take an oath (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Holy Prophet (ﷺ) said to a man whom he asked to take an oath: Swear by Allah except whom there is no god that you have nothing belonging to him, i.e. the plaintiff (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The holy Prophet (ﷺ) said to the Jew : I adjure you by Allah Who sent down the Torah to Moses ! do you not find in the Torah(a rule about a man) who commits adultery. He then narrated the rest of the tradition relating to the stoning (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ash-Sharid: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Delay in payment on the part of one who possesses means makes it lawful to dishonour and punish him. Ibn al-Mubarak said that "dishonour" means that he may be spoken to roughly and "punish" means he may be imprisoned for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Grandfather of Hirmas ibn Habib: I brought my debtor to the Holy Prophet (ﷺ). He said to me: Stick to him. He again said to me: O brother of Banu Tamim, what do you want to do with your prisoner (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Bahz bin Hakim, on his father's authority, said that his grandfather told that the Prophet (ﷺ) imprisoned a man on suspicion (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If you dispute over a pathway, leave the margin of seven yards (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSirmah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone harms (others), Allah will harm him, and if anyone shows hostility to others, Allah will show hostility to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib on his father's authority said that his grandfather told that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) decided regarding the stream al-Mahzur that its water should be held back till it reached the ankles, and that the upper waters should then be allowed to flow to the lower (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu al-Darda through a different chain of narrators to the same effect from the Holy Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone pursues a path in search of knowledge, Allah will thereby make easy for him a path to paradise; and he who is made slow by his actions will not be speeded by his genealogy (from eng-abudawud.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Saeed Al-Khudri said:"We used not to write anything but the Tasha-hud and the Qur'an (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Walid said :I asked Abu `Amr: What are they writing? He said: The sermon which he heard that day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone interprets the Book of Allah in the light of his opinion even if he is right, he has erred (from eng-abudawud.txt)
AbuSallam said on the authority of a man who served the Holy Prophet (ﷺ) that whenever he talked, he repeated it three times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah: The Holy Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the discussion of thorny questions (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who is asked something he knows and conceals it will have a bridle of fire put on him on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: You hear (from me), and others will hear from you; and people will hear from them who heard from you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl b. Sa’d reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying:I swear on Allah, it will be better for you that Allah should give guidance to one man through your agency than that you should acquire the red ones among the camels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: relate traditions from the children of Isra'il; there is no harm (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to relate to us traditions from the children of Isra'il till morning came; he would not get up except for obligatory prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone acquires knowledge that should be sought seeking the Face of Allah, but he acquires it only to get some worldly advantage, he will not experience the arf, i.e. the fragrance, of Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Awf ibn Malik al-Ashja'i: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Only a ruler, or one put in charge, or one who is presumptuous, gives instructions (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah has cursed wine, its drinker, its server, its seller, its buyer, its presser, the one for whom it is pressed, the one who conveys it, and the one to whom it is conveyed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said :Abu Talhah asked the prophet (ﷺ) about the orphans who had inherited wine. He replied: Pour it out. He asked: May I not make vinegar of it ? He replied : No (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Bashir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: from grapes wine is made, from dried dates wine is made, from honey wine is made, from wheat wine is made, from barley wine is made (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Bashir: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Wine is made from grape-syrup, raisins, dried dates, wheat, barley, millet, and I forbid you from every intoxicant (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Apostel of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Every intoxicant is forbidden. He who drinks wine in this world, and dies when he is addiction to it, will not drink it in the next (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If a large amount of anything causes intoxication, a small amount of it is prohibited (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Musa said :I asked the prophet (ﷺ) about wine made from honey. He said: That is bit. I said: And the one made from barley and millet ? He said :That is mizr. He then said: Tell your people that every intoxicant is prohibited (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade every intoxicant and everything which produces languidness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Every intoxicant is forbidden; if a faraq of anything causes intoxication, a handful of it is forbidden (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Ghanam: Malik ibn AbuMaryam said: AbdurRahman ibn Ghanam entered upon us and we discussed tila' and he said: AbuMalik al-Ash'ari told me that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Some of my people will assuredly drink wine calling it by another name (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Dawud said:An old man of the people of Wasit narrated from Abu Mansur al-Harith bin Mansur saying: I heard Sufyan Al-Thawri who was asked about al-dadhi. He said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Some of my people will assuredly drink wine calling it by another name (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar and Ibn ‘Abbas said :We testify that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade (the use of) gourds, green jars, receptacles smeared with pitch, and hollowed stumps of palm-trees (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to the deputation of 'Abd al-Qais: I forbid you the use of hollow stumps, vessels smeared with pitch, green harrs, pumpkins, and a skin cut off at the top, but drink from your skin and tie it with string (from eng-abudawud.txt)
In the story of the deputation of AbdulQays Ibn Abbas said:They (the people) asked: In which should we drink, Prophet of Allah? The Prophet (ﷺ) said: You should use those skin vessels that are tied at their mouths (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade us the use of pumpkins, green jars, hollow stumps and wine made from barley (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah said:When the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) forbade the use of(wine) vessels, Ansar said: They are inevitable for us. Thereupon he said: If so, then no (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b.’ Amr said:The Prophet(ﷺ) mentioned the vessels: pumpkins, green jarrs, vessels smeared with pitch and hollow stumps. A desert Arab said: We have no vessels(except these). He said: Drink(from them) what is lawful (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Sharik through a different chain of narrators. This version has:Avoid that which produces intoxication (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah said:Dates were steeped for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in a skin, but when they could not find a skin, they were steeped for him in a small stone vessel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b.’Abd Allah said:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) forbade mixing of raisins and dried dates: and unripe dates and fresh dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A man: A man from among the Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade (mixing) unripe dates and dried dates, and (mixing) raisins and dried dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: Kabshah, daughter of AbuMaryam, asked Umm Salamah (Allah be pleased with her): What did the Prophet (ﷺ) prohibit? She replied: He forbade us to boil dates so much so that the kernels are spoiled, and to mix raisins and dried dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Raisins were steeped for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and then dried dates were infused in them, or dried dates were steeped and then raisins were infused in them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah said :Dates were steeped for the Apostel of Allah (ﷺ) in skin which was tied up at the top and had a mouth. What was steeped in the morning he would drink in the evening and what was steeped in the evening he would drink in the morning (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that a man should drink while standing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nazzal b. Samurah said :‘Ali asked for water and he drank it while standing. He then said: some people disapprove of doing this (drinking while standing ), but I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing as I have done (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn Abbas said:The apostle of allah (ﷺ) forbade drinking from the mouth of a water-skin, and riding the animal which feeds on filth and eating the animal which is killed in confinement. Abu Dawud said: Jallalah means an animal which eats filth and impurities (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id al-Khudri said :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited drinking by inverting the heads of skin vessels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A man of the Ansar quoting from his father said that the Prophet (ﷺ) called for a skin-vessel on the day of the battle of Uhud. He then said:Invert the head of the vessel and he drank from its mouth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu sa’id al-Khudri said:The apostle of Allah (ﷺ) forbade drinking from the broken place (of a cup) and blowing into a drink (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn AbuAwfa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The supplier of the people is the last (man) to drink (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:The Prophet (ﷺ) was brought milk that was mixed with water. A nomad Arab was on his right and Abu Bakr was on his left. He himself drank and gave it to the nomad Arab, and said: He who is on the right , then he who is on his right then he who is on his right (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b.Malik said :when the prophet (ﷺ) drank, he used to breathe three times in the course of a drink and say : It is more whole some ,thrist-quenching and healthier (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade blowing or breathing into a vessel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b.’Abd Allah reported the Prophet (ﷺ)as saying this version is not complete ‘’for the devil does not open a shut door, or loosen a water-skin, or uncover a vessel, for a mouse sets a house on fire over its inhabitants’’ (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b.Abd Allah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:Gather your children when darkness spreads, or in the evening (according to Musaddad), for the jinn are abroad and seize them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The water from as-Suqya' was considered sweetest by the Prophet (ﷺ). Qutaybah said: it was a well on two days' journey from Medina (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. ‘Umar reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as sayings:when one of you is invited for a wedding feast, he must attend it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn ‘Umar to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. This version has the additional words:If he is not fasting, he should eat, and if he is fasting, he should leave it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as saying:if one of you invites his brother, he should accept(the invitation), whether it is a wedding feast or something of that nature (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Nafi’ to the same effect through the chain of narrators as mentioned in Ayyub (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir reported the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as sayings:when one of you is invited to a meal, he must accept. If he wishes he may eat, but if he wishes(to leave), he may leave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who does not accept an invitation which he receives has disobeyed Allah and His Apostle, and he who enters without invitation enters as a thief and goes out as a raider. Abu Dawud said: Aban bin Tariq is unknown (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The worst kind of food is that at a wedding feast to which the rich are invited and from which the poor are left out. If anyone does not attend the feast to which he was invited, he has disobeyed Allah and His Apostle (may peace upon him) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Thabit said:The marriage of Zainab daughter of Jahsh was mentioned before Anas b. Malik. He said: I did not see that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) held such a wedding feast for any of his wives as he did for her. He held a wedding feast with a sheep (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) held a wedding feast for Safiyyah with meal and dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qatadah reported this story from Sa’id b. al-Musayyab. This version adds:When he was invited on the third day, he did not accept but threw pebbles on the messenger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: When the Prophet (ﷺ) returned to Medina, he would slaughter a camel or a cow (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Hospitality extend for three days, and what goes beyond that is sadaqah (charity) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuKarimah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: It is a duty of every Muslim (to provide hospitality) to a guest for a night. If anyone comes in the morning to his house, it is a debt due to him. If he wishes, he may fulfil it, and if he wishes he may leave it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdam AbuKarimah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If any Muslim is a guest of people and is given nothing, it is the duty of every Muslim to help him to the extent of taking for him from their crop and property for the entertainment of one night (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Prayer should not be postponed for taking meals nor for any other thing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out from the privy and was presented to him. They (the people) asked: Should we bring you water for ablution? He replied: I have been commanded to perform ablution when I get up for prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out from the valley of a mountain where he had eased himself. There were some dried dates on a shield before us. We called him and he ate with us. He did not touch water (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never expressed disapproval of food; if he desired it, he ate it, and if he disliked it, he left it alone (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When one of you eats, he should mention Allah's name; if he forgets to mention Allah's name at the beginning, he should say: "In the name of Allah at the beginning and at the end of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Juhaifah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as sayings:I do not eat while reclining (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was never seen reclining while eating, nor walking with two men at his heels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:The Prophet(ﷺ) sent me(for some work), and when I returned to him found him eating dates and squatting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you eats, he must not eat from the top of the dish, but should eat from the bottom; for the blessing descends from the top of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of food: to sit at cloth on which wine is drunk, and to eat by a man while lying on his stomach. Abu Dawud said : Ja'far did not hear this tradition from al-Zuhri. His tradition is rejected (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has been transmitted by al-Zuhri from a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as sayings:When any of you eats, he should eat with his right hand, and when he drinks, he should drink with his right hand, for the devil eats with his left hand and drinks with his left hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn AbuSalamah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Come near, my son, mention Allah's name, eat with your right hand and eat from what is next to you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Do not eat meat with a knife, for it is a foreign practice, but bite it, for it is more beneficial and wholesome. Abu Dawud said: This tradition is not strong (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The bone dearer to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was the bone of sheep (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The food the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) liked best was tharid made from bread and tharid made from Hays. Abu Dawud said: It is a weak (tradition) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qabisah ibn Halb: A man asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): Is there any food from which I should keep myself away? I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Anything which creates doubt should not occur in your mind by which you resemble Christianity (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited eating the animal which feeds on filth and drinking its milk (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited to drink the milk of the animal which feeds on filth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade riding the camel which feeds on filth and drinking its milk (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah said:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) forbade the flesh of domestic asses on the day of Khaibar, but permitted horse flesh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: On the day of Khaybar we slaughtered horses, mules, and assess. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade us (to eat) mules and asses, but he did not forbid horse-flesh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:I was an adolescent boy. I hunted a hare and roasted it. Abu Talha sent its hunch through me to the Prophet (ﷺ), so I brought it to him and he accepted it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Shibl: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to eat the flesh of lizard (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Safinah: I ate the flesh of a bustard along with the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated at-Talabb ibn Tha'labah at-Tamimi: I accompanied the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), but I did not hear about the prohibition of (eating) insects and little creatures of land (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the hyena. He replied: It is game, and if one who is wearing ihram (pilgrim's robe) hunts it, he should give a sheep as atonement (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Tha’labah al-Khushani said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited eating fanged beasts of prey (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) prohibited the eating of every beast of prey with fang, and every bird with a talon (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: On the day of Khaybar the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited eating every beast of prey, and every bird with a talon (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade payment for a cat. Ibn AbdulMalik said: to eat a cat and to enjoy its price (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: On the day of Khaybar the Messenger of Allah (may pease be upon him) forbade (eating) the flesh of domestic asses, and the animal which feeds on filth: riding it and eating its flesh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Ya’fur said:I heard Ibn Abi Awfa say when I asked him about (eating) locusts: I went on six or seven expeditions along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and we ate them (locusts) along with him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salman al-Farsi: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about (eating) locusts. He replied: They are the most numerous of Allah's hosts. I neither eat them nor declare them unlawful (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) was brought a piece of cheese in Tabuk. He called for a knife, mentioned Allah's name and cut it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:What a good condiment vinegar is (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as sayings:What a good condiment vinegar is (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who eats from this plant should not come near the mosques (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah ibn Qurrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade these two plants (i.e. garlic and onions), and he said: He who eats them should not come near our mosque. If it is necessary to eat them, make them dead by cooking, that is, onions and garlic (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: It is forbidden to eat garlic unless it is cooked. Abu Dawud said: The full name of the narrator Sharik is Sharik bin Hanbal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Khalid said: AbuZiyad Khiyar ibn Salamah asked Aisha about onions. She replied: The last food which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ate was some which contained onions (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Yusuf ibn Abdullah ibn Salam: I saw that the Prophet (ﷺ) took a piece of bread of barley and put a date on it and said: This is the condiment of this (from eng-abudawud.txt)
’A’ishah reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as saying:A family which has no dates will be hungry (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: When the Prophet (ﷺ) was brought some old dates, he began to examine them and remove the worms from them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn AbuTalhah: The Prophet (ﷺ) was brought some dates which contained worms. He then mentioned the rest of the tradition to the same effect as the previous (No) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) prohibited anyone taking two dates together with the exception that you ask permission from your companions (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. Ja’far said:The Prophet(ﷺ) used to eat cucumber with fresh dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to eat melon with fresh dates, and he used to say: The heat of the one is broken by the coolness of the other, and the coolness of the one by the heat of the other (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Busr ibn Atiyyah ibn Busr: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to visit us and we offered him butter and dates, for he liked butter and dates (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: I was on an expedition along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). We got the vessels and skins of the polytheists and used them. But he did not object to them (i.e. us) for that (action) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Maimunah said:A mouse fell into clarified butter. The Prophet (ﷺ) was informed of it. He said: Throw what is around it and eat (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The tradition mentioned above (No. 3833) has also been transmitted by Ibn Abbas from Maymunah, from the Prophet (ﷺ) like the tradition narrated by az-Zuhri, from Ibn al-Musayyab (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :When one of you eats, he must not wipe his hand with a handkerchief till he licks it or gives it to someone to lick (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ka’b b. Malik said:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to eat with three fingers and not wipe his before licking it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Umamah said:When the food cloth was removed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “praise be to Allah abundantly and sincerely, of such a nature as is productive of blessing, is not insufficient, Abandoned, or ignored, O our lord.” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) finished his food, he said: "Praise be to Allah Who has given us food and drink and made us Muslims (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuAyyub al-Ansari: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ate or drank, he said: "Praise be to Allah Who has given food and drink and made it easy to swallow, and provided an exit for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone spends the night with grease on his hand which he has not washed away, he can blame only himself if some trouble comes to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to visit Sa'd ibn Ubaydah, and he brought bread and olive oil, and he ate (them). Them). Then the Prophet (ﷺ) said: May the fasting (men) break their fast with you, and the pious eat your food, and the angels pray for blessing on you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The best medical treatment you apply is cupping (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salmah: the maid-servant of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said: No one complained to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) of a headache but he told him to get himself cupped, or of a pain in his legs but he told him to dye them with henna (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Kabshah al-Ansari: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to have himself cupped on the top of his head and between his shoulders, and that he used to say: If anyone pours out any of his blood, he will not suffer if he applies no medical treatment for anything (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone has himself cupped on the 17th, 19th and 21st it will be a remedy for every disease (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had himself cupped above the thigh for a contusion from which he suffered (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a physician to Ubayy (ibn Ka'b), and he cut his vein (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said:The Prophet (ﷺ) cauterized Sa’d b. Mu’adh from the wound of an arrow (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn’Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) snuffed medicine (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about a charm for one who is possessed (nashrah). He replied: It pertains to the work of the devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited unclean medicine (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Uthman: When a physician consulted the Prophet (ﷺ) about putting frogs in medicine, he forbade him to kill them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone drinks poison, the poison will be in his hand (on the Day of Judgement) and he will drink it in Hell-fire and he will live in it eternally (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu al-Darda: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah has sent down both the disease and the cure, and He has appointed a cure for every disease, so treat yourselves medically, but use nothing unlawful (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa’d b. Abl Waqqas reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying:He who has a morning meal of seven ‘Ajwah dates will not suffer from any harm that day through poison or magic (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Wear your white garments, for they are among your best garments, and shroud your dead in them. Among the best types of collyrium you use is antimony (ithmid): it clears the vision and makes the hair sprout (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :The evil is genuine (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The man casting evil would be commanded to perform ablution, and then the man affected was washed with it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Asma', daughter of Yazid ibn as-Sakan,: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Do not kill your children secretly, for the milk, with which a child is suckled while his mother is pregnant, overtakes the horseman and throws him from his horse (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Imran ibn Husayn: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: No spell is to be used except for the evil eye or a scorpion sting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Awf b. Malik said :In the pre-Islamic period we used to apply spells and we asked: Messenger of Allah ! how do you look upon it ? He replied : Submit your spells to me. There is no harm in spells so long as they involve no polytheism (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ash-Shifa', daughter of Abdullah,: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered when I was with Hafsah, and he said to me: Why do you not teach this one the spell for skin eruptions as you taught her writing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying :No spell is to be used except for the evil eye, or sting of poisonous insects, or bleeding. The narrator al-‘Abhas did mention the words “evil eye”. The is the version of Sulaiman b. Dawud (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said to Thabit :Should I not use the spell of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for you ? He said : Yes. He then said : O Allah, Lord of men, Remover of the harm, heal, Thou art the healer. There is no healer but Thou; given him a remedy which leaves no disease behind (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said :When a man complained of pain the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him pointing to his saliva and mixing it with dust :(This is) the dust of our earth, mixed with saliva of us, so that our sick is remedied with the permission of our lord (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: A man who was stung by a scorpion was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ). He said: Had he said the word: "I seek refuge in the perfect words of Allah from the evil of what He created, "he would not have been stung, or he said, "It would not have harmed him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A'ishah:the wife of Prophet (ﷺ) said: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) suffered from some pain, he recited mu'awwadhat in his heart and blew (them over him). When the pain became severe, I recited (them) over him and wiped him with his hand in the hope of its blessing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: My mother intended to make me gain weight to send me to the (house of) the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). But nothing which she desired benefited me till she gave me cucumber with fresh dates to eat. Then I gained as much weight (as she desired) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone acquires any knowledge of astrology, he acquires a branch of magic of which he gets more as long as he continues to do so (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qabisah: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Augury from the flight of birds, taking evil omens and the practice of pressomancy pertain to divination. Tarq: It is used in the sense of divination in which women threw stones. 'Iyafah: It means geomancy by drawing lines (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Muhammed b. Ja'far:On the authority of 'Awf: 'Iyafah means to makes the birds fly by threatening them. Tarq means lines drawn on the earth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah b. al-Hakam al-Sulami:I said: Messenger of Allah! among us there are men who practice divination by drawing lines. He said: There was a Prophet who drew lines, so if anyone does it as he drew lines, that is right (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Taking omens is polytheism; taking omens is polytheism. He said it three times. Every one of us has some, but Allah removes it by trust (in Him) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: There is no infection, no hamah, no other promising rain, and no serpent in a hungry belly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is no ghoul (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Dawud said:Malik was asked about the meaning of his saying: There is no safar. He replied: The people of pre-Islamic Arabia used to make the month of safar lawful (for war). They made it lawful in one year and unlawful in another year. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is no safar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) heard a word, and he liked it, he said: We took your omen from your mouth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Ata:People said: safar is a pain within the belly. I asked: What is hamah ? He said: People said (believed) that hamah which is an owl or a nightbird and which shrieks is the spirit of men. It is not the spirit of men. It is an animal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is no hamah, no infection and no evil omen; if there is in anything an evil omen, it is a house, a horse, and a woman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: A man said: Messenger of Allah! we were in an abode in which our numbers and our goods were many and changed to an abode in which our numbers and our goods became few. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Leave it, for it is reprehensible (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a man who was suffering from tubercular leprosy by the hand; he then put it along with his own hand in the dish and said: Eat with confidence in Allah and trust in Him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amr b. Shu'aib: on his father's authority, told that his grandfather reported the Prophet (ﷺ) said: A slave who has entered into an agreement to purchase his freedom is a slave as long as a dirham of the agreed price remains to be paid (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to us: If one of you has a slave, and he enters into an agreement to purchase his freedom, and can pay the full price, she must veil herself from him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu al-Malih: On his father's authority (this is AbulWalid's version): A man emancipated a share in a slave and the matter was mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ). He said: Allah has no partner. Ibn Kathir added in his version: The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed his emancipation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: A man emancipated his share in a slave. The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed his (full) emancipation, and required him to pay the rest of his price (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qatadah narrated with his chain of narrators:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If a man emancipates a slave shared by him with another man, his emancipation rests with him (who emancipated his share). This is the version of Ibn Suwaid (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qatadah narrated with his chain of narrators. The Prophet (ﷺ) said:If anyone emancipates his share in a slave, he emancipates him (completely) by his property if he has property. The narrator Ibn al-Muthanna did not mention al-Nadr b. Anas. This is the version of Ibn Suwaid (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone emancipates a share in his slave, he should completely emancipate him if he has money; but if he has none, then slave will be required to work (to pay for his freedom), but he must not be overburdened (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn 'Umar to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. Nafi' sometimes said:He will be emancipated to the extent of the share which he emancipated, and sometimes he did not say these words (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone emancipates his share in a slave, he should emancipate him completely if he has enough money to pay the full price ; but if he has none, he will be emancipated to the extent of his share (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn 'Umar from the Prophet (ﷺ) to the same effect as mentioned by Ibrahim b. Musa through a different chain (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:If a man emancipates his share in a slave, the rest will be emancipated by his money if he has enough money to pay the full price for him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:If a man is shared by two men, and one of them emancipates his share, a price of the slave will be fixed, not more or less, and he will be emancipated by him in case he is rich (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: Qatadah reported Umar ibn al-Khattab (may Allah be pleased with him) as saying: If anyone gets possession of a relative who is within the prohibited degrees, that person becomes free (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qatadah reported 'Umar b. al-Khattab (ra) as saying:If anyone gets possession of a relative who is within the prohibited degrees, that person becomes free (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Jabir b. Zaid and al-Hasan through a different chain of narrators. Abu Dawud said:The narrator sa'id retained te tradition more carefully than Hammad (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: We sold slave-mothers during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and of AbuBakr. When Umar was in power, he forbade us and we stopped (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abd Allah said:A man declared that his slave would be free after his death, but he had no other property. So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered (to sell him). He was then sold for seven hundred or nine hundred (dirhams) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above also has been transmitted by Jabir b. 'Abd Allah through a different chain of narrators. This version added:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: You are more entitled to his price, and Allah has no need of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Qilabah through a different chain of narrators on the authority of 'Imran b. Husain to the same effect. But in this version he did not mention "He spoke severely of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Qilabah from Abu Zaid through a different chain of narrators to the same effect:A man of the Ansar ... The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Had I been present before his burial, he would not have been buried in a Muslim cemetry (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Imran b. Husain said:A man emancipated six slaved at the time of his death and he had no other property. The Prophet (ﷺ) was informed about it. He cast lots among them, emancipated two and retained four in slavery (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. 'Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone emancipates a slave who has property, the property of the slave belongs to him except that the master makes a stipulation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The child of adultery is worst of the three. Abu Hurairah said: That I give a flog in the path of Allah (as a charity) is dearer to me than emancipating a child of adultery (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Amr ibn Abasah, said that Marrah ibn Ka'b said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: If anyone emancipates a Muslim slave, that will be his ransom from Jahannam (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbudDarda': The Prophet (ﷺ) said: the similitude of a man who emancipates a slave at the time of his death is like that of a man who gives a present after satisfying his appetite (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) read the Qur'anic verse, "And take ye the Station of Abraham as a place of prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A'ishah:A man got up (for prayer) at night, he read the Qur'an and raised his voice in reading. When the morning came, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: May Allah have mercy on so-and-so! Last night he reminded me a number of verses which I was about to forget (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from niggardliness and old age (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Laqit ibn Sabirah: I came in the deputation of Banu al-Muntafiq to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He then narrated the rest of the tradition. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: la tahsibanna (do not think) and did not say: la tahsabanna (do not think) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd ibn Thabit: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to read: "Not equal are those believers who sit (at home) and receive no hurt (ghayru ulid-darari) but the narrator Sa'id did not say the words "used to read (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) read the verse: "eye for eye" (al-'aynu bil-'ayn) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) read the verse: "We ordained therein for them: Life for life and eye for eye (an-nafsa bin-nafsi wal-'aynu bil-'ayn) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) read the verse mentioned above, "min du'f (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubayy b. Ka'b:"Say, in the bounty of Allah, and in His mercy- in that let you rejoice (from eng-abudawud.txt)
(Narrated Ibn Abzi: Ubayy ibn Ka'b) said: The Prophet (ﷺ) read the verse: "Say: In the bounty of Allah and in His mercy--in that let you rejoice: that is better than the wealth you hoard (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Asma' daughter of Yazid: She heard the Prophet (ﷺ) read the verse: "He acted unrighteously." (innahu 'amila ghayra salih) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubayy ibn Ka'b: The Prophet (ﷺ) read the Qur'anic verse: "Thou hast received (full) excuse from me (min ladunni)" and put tashdid (doubling of consonants) on nun (n) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: Ubayy ibn Ka'b made me read the following verse as the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) made him read: "in a spring of murky water" (fi 'aynin hami'atin) with short vowel a after h (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying - the narrator Isma'il transmitted it from Abu Hurairah, and mentioned the tradition about the coming down of revelation-: "So far (is this the case) that when terror is removed from their hearts (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) read: "(There is for him) Rest and satisfaction" (faruhun wa rayhan) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Safwan b. Ya'la quoting his father said:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) read on the pulpit the verse: "They will cry: O Malik." Abu Dawud said: That is, without shortening the name (Malik) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) made me read the verse "It is I who give (all) sustenance, Lord of power, steadfast (for ever) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) reading the verse; "does he think that his wealth would make him last for ever? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) mentioned the name of the one who will sound the trumpet (sahib as-sur) and said: On his right will be Jibra'il and on his left will be Mika'il (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Dharr:I was sitting behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) who was riding a donkey while the sun was setting. He asked: Do you know where this sets ? I replied: Allah and his Apostle know best. He said: It sets in a spring of warm water (Hamiyah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Shariq:Ibn Mas'ud said read the verse: "Now come, thou" (haita laka). Then Shariq said: We read it, "hi'tu laka" (I am prepared for thee). Ibn Mas'ud said: I read it as I have been taught ; it is dearer to me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Shariq:'Abd Allah (b. Mas'ud) was told that the people had read this verse: "She said: Now come, thou" (hita laka). He said: I read it as I have been taught ; it is dearer to me. It goes "wa qalat haita laka" (She said: Now come thou) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa’id Al Khudri :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Allah, the Exalted, said to the children of Israel : "... but enter the gate with humility, in posture and in words, and you will be forgiven your faults (tughfar lakum) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Hisham b. Sa'd with a different chain of narrators in a similar way (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to enter the hot baths. He then permitted men to enter them in lower garments (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ya'la: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a man washing in a public place without a lower garment. So he mounted the pulpit, praised and extolled Allah and said: Allah is characterised by modesty and concealment. So when any of you washes, he should conceal himself (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ya'la from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators. Abu Dawud said:The former is more perfect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jarhad: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat with us and my thigh was uncovered. He said: Do you not know that thigh is a private part ? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not uncover you thigh, and do not look at the thigh of the living and the dead. Abu Dawud said: This tradition disagrees with the generally reported traditions (nakarah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswar b. Makhramah:I lifted a heavy stone. While I was walking my garment fell down. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: Take you garment upon you, and do not walk naked (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A man should not lie with another man and a woman should not lie with another woman without covering their private parts except a child or a father. He also mentioned a third thing which I forgot (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Al-Jariri through a different chain of narrators in a similar way (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: The clothing which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) liked best was shirt (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: No clothing was dearer to be Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) than shirt (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Asma', daughter of Yazid,: The sleeve of the shirt of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to the wrist (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: If anyone wears a garment for gaining fame, Allah will clothe him in a similar garment on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Musaddad transmitted the tradition mentioned above from Abu 'Awanah saying:Garment of disgrace (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who copies any people is one of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out one morning wearing a variegated garment of black goat hair. Narrated Utbah ibn AbdusSulami: I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to clothe me. He clothed me with two coarse clothes of linen (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Burdah: My father said to me: My son, if you had seen us while we were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and the rain had fallen on us, you would have thought that our smell was the smell of the sheep (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The King Dhu Yazan presented to the apostle of Allah (ﷺ) a suit of clothes which he had purchased for thirty-three camels or thirty-three she-camels. He accepted it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ishaq ibn Abdullah ibn al-Harith: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) purchased a suit of clothes for twenty she-camels and some more and he presented it to Dhu Yazan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Burdah:I entered upon 'Aishah, and she brought a coarse lower garment that was manufactured in the Yemen and a patched garment called mulabbadah. She swore by Allah that the spirit of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was taken in these two clothes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd: I saw a man riding on a white mule and he had a black turban of silk and wool. He said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) put it on me. This is the version of Uthman, and there is the word akhbara in his tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been narrated by 'Abd Allah b. 'Umar through a different chain of narrators. This version has:He said: A robe of silk brocade. He then sent him a Jubbah of brocade and said: You may sell it and fulfill your need (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Uthman al-Nahdi:'Umar wrote to 'Utbah b. Farqad that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade (wearing) silk except so-and-so, and so-and-so, to the extent of two, three, or four fingers (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ali said:A robe containing silk was presented to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He then sent it to me. I wore it and came to him. I saw him looking angry in his face. He then said: I did not send it to you to wear. He ordered me and I divided it among my women (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade us to wear a Qassi garment, a garment dyed with safflower, gold rings, and reading the Qur'an while bowing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Ali b. Abi Talib from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators. This version has:(He forbade) reading the Qur'an while bowing and prostrating (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibrahim b. 'Abd Allah through a different chain of narrators. This version added:I do not say that he had forbidden you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ali said:It is forbidden to use purple saddle-clothes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me to wear a gold ring, or a Qassi garment or the use purple saddle-cloths (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by 'Aishah through a different chain of narrators. But the former is more perfect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:It is only a garment wholly made of silk which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade, but there is no harm in the ornamented border and the wrap (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave license to 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Awf and al-Zubair b. al-'Awwam to wear silk shirts during a journey because of an itch which they had (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) took silk and held it in his right hand, and took gold and held it in his left hand and said: both of these are prohibited to the males of my community (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik said that he saw a striped garment over Umm Kulthum, daughter of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He said:The word "siyara" means striped with silk (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: We used to take it away (i.e. silk) from boys, and leave it for girls. Mis'ar said: I asked Amr ibn Dinar about it, but he did not know it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qatadah:We asked Anas b. Malik: Which cloth was dearer to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ? or Which cloth did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) like best to wear ? He replied: The striped cloaks (hibrah) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Wear your white garments, for they are among your best garments, and shroud your dead in them. Among the best types of collyrium you use is antimony (ithmid) for it clears the vision and makes the hair sprout (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuRimthah: I went with my father to the Prophet (ﷺ) and saw two green garments over him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hisham b. al-Ghaz said:The word mudarrajah mentioned in the previous tradition means a colour which is neither crimson nor pink (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: A man wearing two red garments passed the Prophet (ﷺ) and gave him a greeting, but he did not respond to his greeting (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' bin 'Azib:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had hair which reached the lobes of his ears, and I saw him wearing red robe. I did not see anything more beautiful than it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Amir: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at Mina giving sermon on a mule and wearing a red garment, while Ali was announcing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: I made a black cloak for the Prophet (ﷺ) and he put it on; but when he sweated in it and noticed the odour of the wool, he threw it away. The narrator said: I think he said: He liked good smell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: When I came to the Prophet (ﷺ), he was sitting with his hands round his knees wearing the cloak the fringe of which was over his feet (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca in the year of the Conquest while he had a black turben over him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Amr b. Huraith quoting his father said:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) on the pulpit and he wore a black turban, and he let both the ends hang between his shoulders (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn Rukanah: Ali quoting his father said: Rukanah wrestled with the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) threw him on the ground. Rukanah said: I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: The difference between us and the polytheists is that we wear turbans over caps (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Awf: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) put a turban on me and let the ends hang in front of him and behind me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade that a man should wrap himself completely in a garment with his hands hidden it, or sit in a single garment with his hands round his knees (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Dharr though a different chain of narrators, but the former is more perfect. This version has:Mannan is the one takes account of anything he gives (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah Most High says: Pride is my cloak and majesty is my lower garment, and I shall throw him who view with me regarding one of them into Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Hanging down is in lower garment, shirt and turban. If anyone trails any of them conceitedly, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: What the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said about lower garment also applies to shirt (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ikrimah said that he saw Ibn Abbas putting on lower garment, letting the hem on the top of his foot and raising it behind. He said:Why do you put on the lower garment in this way? He replied: It is how I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) do it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) cursed women who imitate men and men who imitate women (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the man who dressed like a woman and the woman who dressed like a man (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn AbuMulaykah told that when someone remarked to Aisha that a woman was wearing sandals, she replied:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed mannish women (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Safiyyah, daughter of Shaybah, said that Aisha mentioned the women of Ansar, praised them and said good words about them. She then said:When Surat an-Nur came down, they took the curtains, tore them and made head covers (veils) of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: When the verse "That they should cast their outer garments over their persons" was revealed, the women of Ansar came out as if they had crows over their heads by wearing outer garments (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: May Allah have mercy on the early immigrant women. When the verse "That they should draw their veils over their bosoms" was revealed, they tore their thick outer garments and made veils from them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn al-Sarh said:I saw (this tradition) in the writing of my maternal uncle from 'Aqil, from Ibn Shihab through a different chain of narrators and to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Umm Salamah asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) permission for getting herself cupped. He commanded Abu Tibah to cup her. The transmitter said: I think he was her foster-brother or a boy not yet of age (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Aishah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned about has also been transmitted by 'Aishah through a different chain of narrators. This version has:He (the Prophet) exiled him and he lived in a desert (outside Medina). He would come every Friday asking for food (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The verse: "And say to the believing women that they should lower gaze was partly abrogated by the verse: "Such elderly women as are past the prospect of marriage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amr b. Suh'aib: On his father's authority, said that his grandfather reported the Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you marries his male-slave to his slave-woman, he should not look at her private parts (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to visit her when she was veiled, and said: use one fold and not two. Abu Dawud said: "Use one fold and not two" means: "Do not fold it like the turban of a man. Do not double it up manifolds (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Umm Salamah from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators. Abu Dawud said:Ibn Ishaq and Ayyub b. Musa transmitted it from Nafi' from Safiyyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by al-Zuhri who did not mention Maimunah. This version has:He said: Why did you not make use of it ? He then mentioned the rest of the tradition to the same effect but did not mention tanning (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ma'mar said:Al-Zuhri used to deny tanning and say: Some good can be got out of it in any condition Abu Dawud said: Al-Auza'i, Yunus and 'Uqail did not mention tanning. al-Zubaidi, Sa'id b. 'Abd al-Aziz and Hafs b. 'Abd al-'Aziz mentioned tanning (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:That he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: When a skin is tanned, it is pure (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the skins of the animals which had died a natural death should be used when they are tanned (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salamah ibn al-Muhabbaq: On the expedition of Tabuk the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to a household and, seeing a bucket hanging, asked for water. They said: Messenger of Allah, the animal died a natural death. He replied; Its tanning is its purification (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Ukaym: The letter of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was read out to us in the territory of Juhaynah when I was a young boy: Do not make use of the skin or sinew of an animal which died a natural death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not ride on silk stuff and panther skins. AbuSa'id said to us: AbuDawud said to us: The name of AbulMu'tamir is Yazid ibn Tahman. He lived in al-Hirah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: The angels do not accompany those fellow travellers who have panther skin (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-Malih b. Usamah quoting his father said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade (the use of) the skins of beasts of prey (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey. He said: Make a general practice of wearing sandals, for a man keeps riding as long as he wears sandals (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The sandals of the Prophet (ﷺ) had two thongs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade that a man should put on sandals while standing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: None of you should walk with one sandal, but should wear a pair or should put off both of them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: When the thong (of a sandal) of one of you is cut off, he should not walk with one sandal till he repairs his thongs. He should not walk with one shoe, or eat with his left hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: It is part of the Sunnah that when a man sits down, he should take off his sandals and place them at his side (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When you put on (a garment) and when you perform ablution, you should begin with your right side (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) mentioned bedding and said: There should be bedding for a man, bedding for his wife, and third for a guest, but a fourth for the devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Samurah: When I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) in his house, I saw him sitting reclining on a pillow. The narrator Ibn al-Jarrah added: "on his left side". Abu Dawud said: Ishaq b. Mansur transmitted it from Isra'il, also mentioning the words "on his left side (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: Have you made cushions ? I said: How can we afford cushions ? He said: Soon you will have cushions (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The pillow of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on which he slept at night (according to the version on Ibn Mani') was of leather stuffed with palm fibre (according to the agreed version) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The bedding of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) consisted of leather stuffed with palm fibre (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: Her bedding was in front of the place of prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted through a different chain of narrators by Ibn Fudail on his father's authority. This version has:"The curtain was embellished (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never left in his house anything containing the figure of a cross without destroying it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The angels do not enter a house which contains a picture, a dog, or a man who is impure by sexual defilement (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Suhail through a different chain of narrators like the previous one. This version has:I said: Mother, he has told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) has said: He also said the words ; Sa'id b. yasir client of Banu al-Najjar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered Umar ibn al-Khattab who was in al-Batha' at the time of the conquest (of Makkah) to visit the Ka'bah and obliterate all images in it. The Prophet (ﷺ) did not enter it until all the images were obliterated (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mughaffal: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade combing the hair except every second day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) had sikkah with which he perfumed himself (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who has hair should honour it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When Hind, daughter of Utbah, said: Prophet of Allah, accept my allegiance, he replied; I shall not accept your allegiance till you make a difference to the palms of your hands; for they look like the paws of a beast of prey (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the woman who adds some false hair and the woman who asks for it, the woman who tattoos and the woman who asks for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone is presented some perfume, he should not return it, for it is a thing of good fragrance and light to bear (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMusa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If a woman uses perfume and passes the people so that they may get its odour, she is so-and-so, meaning severe remarks (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If a woman fumigates herself with perfume, she must not attend the night prayer with us. Ibn Nufayl said: Isha' means night prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Rabi' b. Anas, quoting his two grandfathers, said:We heard Abu Musa say: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Allah does not accept the prayer of a man who has any khaluq (perfume composed of saffron) on his body. Abu Dawud said: His grandfathers were Zaid and Ziyad (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade men to use saffron. Isma'il version has: "(forbade) man to use saffron (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ammar ibn Yasir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The angels do not come near three: the dead body of the unbeliever, one who smears himself with khaluq, and the one who is sexually defiled except that he performs ablution (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Walid ibn Uqbah: When the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) conquered Makkah. The people of Makkah began to bring their boys and he would invoke a blessing on them and rub their heads. I was brought, but as I had been perfumed with khaluq, he did not touch me because of the khaluq (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had hair which reached the lobes of his ears (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) were up to the lobes of his ears (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The hair of Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) were halfway down his ears (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) were above wafrah and below jummah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When I parted the hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) I made a parting from the crow of his head and let his forelock hang between his eyes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Hani: The Prophet (ﷺ) came to Mecca and he had four plaits of hair (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade qaza'. Qaza' means having part of a boy's head shaved and leaving part unshaven (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade qaza' which means that the head of a boy is shaved and a lock is left (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a boy with part of his head shaved and part left unshaven. He forbade them to do that, saying: Shave it all or leave it all (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: I had a hanging lock of hair. My mother said to me: I shall not cut it, for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to stretch it our and hold it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abd Allah b. 'Umar:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded to clip the moustaches and grow the beard long (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir: We used to grow beard long except during the Hajj or 'Umrah. Abu Dawud said: Istihdad means to shave the pubes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: Jews and Christians do not dye (their beards), so act differently from them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah :Abu Quhafah was brought on the day of the conquest of Mecca with head and beard while like hyssop. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Change this something, but avoid black (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The best things with which grey hair are changed are henna and katam (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuRimthah: I went with my father to the Prophet (ﷺ). He had locks hanging down as far as the lobes of the ears stained with henna, and he was wearing two green garments (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This version adds (to the previous hadith No 4194):My father said to him (the Prophet): Show me what is on your back, for I am a physician. He (the Prophet) said: You are only a soother. Its physician is He Who has created it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuRimthah: I and my father came to the Prophet (ﷺ). He said to a man or to my father: Who is this? He replied: He is my son. He said: Do not commit a crime on him. He had stained his beard with henna (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Thabit said that Anas was asked about the hair-dye of the Prophet (ﷺ). He replied:He did not dye his hair, but Abu Bakr and 'Umar dyed their hair (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to wear tanned leather sandals and dye his beard yellow with wars and saffron, and Ibn 'Umar used to do that too (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: At the end of time there will be people who will use this black dye like the crops of doves who will not experience the fragrance of Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wanted to write to some persian rulers. He was told that they would not read a letter without a seal in the form of a silver ring on which he engraved "Muhammad the Messenger of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The signet-ring of the Prophet (ﷺ) was of silver with an Abyssinian stone (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas:The signet-ring of the Prophet (ﷺ) was all of silver as was also its stone (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to wear the signet-ring on his right hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to wear the signet-ring on his left hand, and put its stone next the palm of his hand. Abu Dawud said: Ibn Ishaq and Usamah b. Zaid transmitted from Nafi': "On his right hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi' said that Ibn 'Umar used to wear his signet-ring on his left hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn az-Zubayr told that a woman client of theirs took az-Zubayr's daughter to Umar ibn al-Khattab wearing bells on her legs. Umar cut them off and said that he had heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:There is a devil along with each bell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
AbdurRahman ibn Tarafah said that his grandfather Arfajah ibn As'ad who had his nose cut off at the battle of al-Kilab got a silver nose, but it developed a stench, so the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to get a gold nose (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above (No. 4220) has also been transmitted by Arfajah ibn As'ad through a different chain to the same effect. Yazid said:I asked AbulAshhab: Did AbdurRahman ibn Tarafah meet his grandfather Arfajah? He replied: Yes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Arfajah through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated A sister of Hudhayfah: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying : You women folk, have in silver something with which you adorn yourselves. I assure you that any woman of you who adorns herself with gold which she displays will be punished for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah ibn AbuSufyan: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to ride on panther skins and to wear gold except a little. Abu Dawud said: The narrator Abu Qilabah did not meet Mu'awiyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: four (majestic) trials (fitnahs) will take place among this community, and in their end there will be destruction (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: Woe to Arabs because of evil which has drawn near! He will escape who restrains his hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Dawud said:Ibn 'Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: The Muslims will soon be besieged up to Medina, so that their most distant frontier outpost will be Salah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Zuhri said:Salah is near Khaibar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdad ibn al-Aswad: I swear by Allah, I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: The happy man is he who avoids dissensions: happy is the man who avoids dissensions; happy is the man who avoids dissensions: but how fine is the man who is afflicted and shows endurance (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There will be civil strife (fitnah) which will render people deaf, dumb and blind regarding what is right. Those who contemplate it will be drawn by it, and giving rein to the tongue during it will be like smiting with the sword (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. 'Abd al-Quddus mentioned in his version:Ziyad, one who has white ears (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa’id Al Khudri :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: A Muslim's best property will soon be sheep which he will take to the tops of the mountains and the places where the rain falls, fleeing with his religion from the civil strife (fitan) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted briefly by al-Hasan through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:No other verse has repealed the verse "If a man kills a believer intentionally (from eng-abudawud.txt)
About the verse "If a man kills a believer intentionally" Abu Mijlaz said:This is his recompense. If Allah wishes to disregard him, He may do do (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMusa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: This people of mine is one to which mercy is shown. It will have no punishment in the next world, but its punishment in this world will be trials, earthquakes and being killed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Jabir b. Samurah through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:When he came back to his home. the Quraish came to him and said: Then what will happen ? He said: Then turmoil will prevail (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If only one day of this time (world) remained, Allah would raise up a man from my family who would fill this earth with justice as it has been filled with oppression (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Mahdi will be of my family, of the descendants of Fatimah. Abdullah ibn Ja'far said: I heard AbulMalih praising Ali ibn Nufayl and describing his good qualities (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Mahdi will be of my stock, and will have a broad forehead a prominent nose. He will fill the earth will equity and justice as it was filled with oppression and tyranny, and he will rule for seven years (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Qatadah through a different chain of narrators. This version has "nine years". Abu Dawud said:The other narrators mentioned "nine years" from Hisham except Mu'adh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Umm Salamah from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators. The tradition of Mu'adh is more perfect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Jabal: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The greatest war, the conquest of Constantinople and the coming forth of the Dajjal (Antichrist) will take place within a period of seven months (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu al-Darda': The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The place of assembly of the Muslims at the time of the war will be in al-Ghutah near a city called Damascus, one of the best cities in Syria (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Dawud said:Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him)As saying: The Muslims will soon be besieged up to Madina so that their most distant frontier outpost will be Salah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Zuhri said:Salah is near Khaibar (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Awf ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah will not gather two swords upon this community: Its own sword and the sword of its enemy (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated from Abi Sukainah One of the Companions: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Let the Abyssinians alone as long as they let you alone, and let the Turks alone as long as they leave you alone (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying:The last hour will not come before the Muslims fight with the Turks, a people whose faces look as if they were shields covered with skin, and who will wear sandals of hair (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Leave the Abyssinians alone as long as they leave you alone, for it is only the Abyssinian with short legs who will seek to take out the treasure of the Ka'bah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:The Euphrates is soon to uncover a treasure of gold, but those who are present must not take any of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Hurairah from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators. But this version has:“Uncover a mountain of gold” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:No prophet was sent who had not warned his people about the one-eyed. Between his eyes will be written “infidel” (kafir) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Shu’bah said in his version:“the letters k, f, r” (are on his forehead) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Anas b. Malik through a different chain of narrators, This version adds:Every Muslim will read it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Imran ibn Husayn: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Let him who hears of the Dajjal (Antichrist) go far from him for I swear by Allah that a man will come to him thinking he is a believer and follow him because of confused ideas roused in him by him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has been transmitted by Abu Umamah from the prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators. In this version he mentioned the prayers to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: Nafi' told that Ibn Umar used to say: I swear by Allah that I do not doubt that Antichrist is Ibn Sayyad (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: We saw the last of Ibn Sayyad at the battle of the Harrah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Last Hour will not come before there come forth thirty Dajjals (fraudulents), everyone presuming himself that he is an apostle of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Last Hour will not come before there come forth thirty liar Dajjals (fraudulents) lying on Allah and His Apostle (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Ibrahim (al-Nakha’l) through a different chain if narrators. I (Ibrahim) said to ‘Ubaidat al-Salmant :Do you think that his one of them, that is al-Mukhtar (al-Thaqaff)? He said : He is from the leaders (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If any man is among a people in whose midst he does acts of disobedience, and, though they are able to make him change (his acts), they do not change, Allah will smite them with punishment before they die (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The best fighting (jihad) in the path of Allah is (to speak) a word of justice to an oppressive ruler (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-'Urs bin 'Amirat al-Kindi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When sin is done in the earth, he who sees it and disapproves of it will be taken like one who was not present, but he who is not present and approves of it will be like him who sees (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by ‘Adl from the prophet (ﷺ) though a different chain of narrators. This version has :He who sees it and disapproves of it will be like him who was not present (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A man from among the companions of the prophet (ﷺ) reported him as saying:The people will not perish until their sins and faults become abundant, and there remains no excuse for them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Tha'labat al-Khushani: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah will not fail to detain this community for less than half a day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd ibn AbuWaqqas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: I hope my community will not fail to maintain their position in the sight of their Lord if He delays them half a day. Sa'd was asked: How long is half a day? He said: It is five hundred years (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Burdah said:A man who turned back from Islam was brought to Abu Musa. He invited him to repent for twenty days or about so. Muadh then came and invited him (to embrace Islam) but he refused. So he was beheaded (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mention above has also been transmitted by Abu Musa through a different chain if narrators. But there is no mention of demand of repentance (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jarir reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying:When a slave runs away and reverts to polytheism, he may lawfully be killed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: A Jewess used to abuse the Prophet (ﷺ) and disparage him. A man strangled her till she died. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) declared that no recompense was payable for her blood (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Anas. B. Malik through a different chain of narrators. This version has :Anas said : I saw one of them biting the earth with this mouth (teeth) on account of thirst and this they died (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Muhammad bin Sirin said :This happened before the prescribed punishments(hudud) were revealed, meaning the tradition of Anas (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) Said: Forgive the people of good qualities their slips, but not faults to which prescribed penalties apply (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Forgive the infliction of prescribed penalties among yourselves, for any prescribed penalty of which I hear must be carried out (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Nu'aym: Ma'iz came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and admitted (having committed adultery) four times in his presence so he ordered him to be stoned to death, but said to Huzzal: If you had covered him with your garment, it would have been better for you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn al-Muakadir said:Huzzal had ordered Ma’iz to go to the prophet (ﷺ) and tell him(about his having committed adultery) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said:The prophet (ﷺ) used to cut off a thief’s hand for a quarter of a dinar and upwards (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying :A thief’s hand should be cut off for a quarter of a dinar and upwards. Ahmed b. Salih said: The amputation (of a thief’s hand) is for a quarter of a dinar and upwards (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar’ said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had thief’s hand cut off for a shield worth three dirhams (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) had a man's hand cut off who had stolen from the place reserved for women a shield whose price was three dirhams (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had a man's hand cut off for (stealing) a shield whose price was a dinar or ten dirhams. Abu Dawud said: Muhammad bin Salamah and Sa'dan bin Yahya have transmitted it from Ibn Ishaq through his chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by Muhammad bin Yahya bin Hibban through a different chain of narrators. This version adds :Marwan gave him some lashes and let him go (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Cutting of hand is not to be inflicted on one who plunders, but he who plunders conspicuously does not belong to us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: He also said through this chain: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Cutting of the hand is not to be inflicted on one who is treacherous (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: There are three (persons) whose actions are not recorded: a sleeper till he awakes, an idiot till he is restored to reason, and a boy till he reaches puberty (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by al-A’mash through a different chain of narrators. He also said :“... . Till he reaches puberty , and a lunatic till he is restored to consciousness.” ‘Umar then began to utter: Allah is most great (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Atiyyah al-Qurazi: I was among the captives of Banu Qurayzah. They (the Companions) examined us, and those who had begun to grow hair (pubes) were killed, and those who had not were not killed. I was among those who had not grown hair (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by ‘Abd al- Malik b. ‘Umar through a different chain of narrators. This version has:They uncovered my private parts, and when they found that the hair had not begun to grow they put me among the captives (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said:He was presented before the prophet (ﷺ) on the day of Uhd when he was fourteen years old, but he did not allow him (to participate in the battle). He was again presented before him on the day of Khandaq when he was fifteen years old, Then he allowed him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi ‘said:When I mentioned this tradition to ‘Umar.b.’Abd al-Aziz he said : This prescribed punishment is between the minor and the major (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) as saying: When a slave steals, sell him, even though it be for half an uqiyah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Mujahid said:“Apponting a way in the verse (iv.15) means prescribed punishment. Sufiyan said: “Punish them “refers to unmarried, and “confine them to houses” refers to the women who are married (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has been transmitted by al-Hasan through a chain of Yahya and to the same effect. This version adds:They shall receive a hundred lashes and toned to death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Simak said:I heard this tradition from Jabir b. Samurah. But the first version is more perfect. This version has: He repeated twice, Simak said: I narrated to Sa’id b. Jubair. He said: He repeated it four times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Shu’bah said:I asked Simak about the meaning of KUTHBAH. He said: A small quantity of milk (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Buraidah said. :The Prophet (ﷺ) smelt the breath of Ma’iz (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A part of tradition has also been transmitted by al-Lajlaj from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said:A man committed fornication with a woman. It was not known that he was married. So he was flogged. It was then known that he was married, so he was stoned to death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Auza’i said:The word shukkta means tied, meaning her clothes were tied on her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Ibrahim and al-Sha’bi from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators. But this version does not mention the words:He called the witnesses who testified (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by al-Sha’bi through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abd Allah said:The Prophet (ﷺ) had a man and a woman of the Jews who had committed fornication stoned to death (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: I met my uncle who was carrying a standard. I asked him: Where are you going? He said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) has sent me to a man who has married his father's wife. He has ordered me to cut off his head and take his property (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man ibn Bashir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: about a man who had (unlawful) intercourse with his wife's slave girl: If she made her lawful for him, he will be flogged one hundred lashes; if she did not make her lawful for him, I shall stone him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: If a man who is not married is seized committing sodomy, he will be stoned to death. Abu Dawud said: The tradition of 'Asim proved the tradition of 'Amir b. Abi 'Amr as weak (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When my vindication came down, the Prophet (ﷺ) mounted the pulpit and mentioned that, and recited the Qur'an. Then when he came down from the pulpit he ordered regarding the two men and the woman, and they were given the prescribed punishment (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah ibn AbuSufyan: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If they (the people) drink wine, flog them, again if they drink it, flog them. Again if they drink it, kill them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hakim ibn Hizam: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to take retaliation in the mosque, to recite verses in it and to inflict the prescribed punishments in it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Burdah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:No more than ten lashes are to be given, except in the case of one of the punishment prescribed by Allah, the Exalted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Burdah al-Ansari through a different chain of narrators. This version has:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say. . . He then mentioned the tradition to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you inflicts a beating, he should avoid striking the face (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that some dispute which involved retaliation was brought to him but he commanded regarding it for remission (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Alqamah b. Wa'il through a different chain of narrators and to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuShurayb al-Ka'bi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Then you, Khuza'ah, have killed this man of Hudhayl, but I will pay his blood-wit. After these words of mine if a man of anyone is killed, his people will have a choice to accept blood-wit or to kill him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: I will not forgive anyone who kills after accepting blood-wit (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: A Jewess presented a poisoned sheep to the Prophet (ﷺ), but the Prophet (ﷺ) did not interfere with he. Abu Dawud said: The Jewess who poisoned the Prophet (ﷺ) was sister of Marhab (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah: The Prophet (ﷺ) Said: If anyone kills his slave, we shall kill him, and if anyone cuts off the nose of his slave, we shall cut off his nose (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qatadah transmitted the tradition mentioned above through a chain of narrators like that of Shu'bah. This version adds:Then al-Hasan forgot this tradition, and he used to say: A free man is not to be killed for a slave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham, from Qatadah, from Al-Hasan, who said:"A free man should not be subjected to retaliation in return for a slave (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That Sa'd b. 'Ubadah said to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) : What do you think if I find with my wife a man ; should I give him some time until I bring four witnesses ?" He said: "Yes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: He then mentioned the rest of the tradition to the same effect as mentioned by Sufyan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: A man of Banu Adi was killed. The Prophet (ﷺ) fixed his blood-wit at the rate of twelve thousand (dirhams). Abu Dawud said: Ibn 'Uyainah transmitted it from 'Amr, from 'Ikrimah, from the Prophet (ﷺ), and he did not mention Ibn 'Abbas (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Khalid through the same chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mujahid:'Umar gave judgement that bloodwit for quasi-intentional murder should be thirty she-camels in their fourth year, thirty she-camels in their fifth year, and forty pregnant she-camels in their sixth year up to the ninth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:The bloodwit for unintentional murder is in four parts: twenty five she-camels in their fourth year, twenty five she-camels in their fifth year, twenty five she-camels in their third year, and twenty twenty five she-camels in their second year (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zaid b. Thabit:About the bloodwit for quasi-intentional murder..... He then mentioned a similar tradition as mentioned above (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMusa: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The fingers are equal: ten camels for each finger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: This and that are equal, that is, the thumb and the little finger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The teeth are equal, and the fingers are equal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) treated the fingers and toes as equal (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amr b. Suh'aib: On his father's authority, said that his grandfather said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said in his address while he was leaning against the Ka'bah: (The blood-wit) for each finger is ten camels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amr b. Suh'aib: On his father's authority, said that his grandfather said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: For each tooth are ten camels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Blood-wit for every wound which lays bare a bone is five camels (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Amr b. Suh'aib: On his father's authority, said that his grandfather said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave judgment that a third of the blood-wit should be paid for an eye fixed in its place (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by 'Umar through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. Abu Dawud said:Hammad b. Zaid and Hammad b. Salamah transmitted it from Hisham b. 'Arubah on his father's authority who said that 'Umar said (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Sha'bi: The price of a male or a female slave is five hundred dirhams. Abu Dawud said: Rabi'ah said: The price of a male or a female slave is fifty dinars (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Khalid with a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Imran ibn Husayn: A servant of some poor people cut off the ear of the servant of some rich people. His people came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: Messenger of Allah! we are poor people. So he imposed no compensation on them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: No recompense is to be demanded if one is kicked by an animal. Abu Dawud said: An animal kicks someone with its leg while one is riding on it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: No recompense may be demanded if the fire spreads (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Jews were split up into seventy-one or seventy-two sects; and the Christians were split up into seventy one or seventy-two sects; and my community will be split up into seventy-three sects (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The best of the actions is to love for the sake of Allah and to hate for the sake of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Ammar b. Yasir said:I came to my family when my hands had cracks. They dyed me with saffron. I then went to Prophet (ﷺ) and saluted him, but he did not return me salutation. He said: Go and wash it away from you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Controverting about the Qur'an is disbelief (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuRafi': The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Let me not find one of you reclining on his couch when he hears something regarding me which I have commanded or forbidden and saying: We do not know. What we found in Allah's Book we have followed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A'ishah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:If any one introduces into this affair of ours anything which does not belong to it, it is rejected. Ibn `Isa said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone practices any action in a way other than our practice, it is rejected (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. Mas’ud reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:"Beware! The extremists perished," saying it three times (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Amir b. sa’id on his father’s authority reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:The Muslim who offends most against the Muslims is he who enquires about something which has not been forbidden to men, and it is declared forbidden because of his enquiry (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Khalid al-Hadhdha, asked al-Hasan about the Quranic verse:“And for this did He create them.” He said: He created these for this and those for that (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Khalid al-Hadhdha asked al-Hasan about the Quranic verse:“Can lead (any) into temptation concerning Allah, except such as are (themselves) going to the blazing fire.” He said: Except the one whom Allah destined that he should go to Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Humaid said:Al-Hasan used to say that his fall from the heaven on the earth is dearer to him than uttering: The matter is in my hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Humaid al-Tawil asked al-Hasan about the verse:“Even so do We let it creep into the hearts of the sinners.” He said: Polytheism (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Explaining the Quranic verse; “And between them and their desire is placed a barrier.” Al-Hasan said:Between them and their faith (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Awn said:I was a prisoner in Syria. A man called me from behind. I turned towards him and suddenly found that it was Raja b. Haiwah. He said: Abu ‘Awn, what is this that the people are telling about al-Hasan? I said: They are much lying to al-Hasan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Yahya b. Kathir al-‘Anbari said:Qurrah b. Khalid used to tell us: O young people! Do not think that al-Hasan denied predestination, for his opinion (i.e., belief) was sunnah and sight (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Awn said:If we learnt that the remark of al-Hasan would reach the extent that it has reached, we would write a book for his withdrawal and call witnesses to him; but we said: This is a remark that surprisingly came out (from him) and it will not be transmitted to others (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ayyub said:Al-Hasan said: I will never return to it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Uthman al-Batti said:Al-Hasan never interpreted any Quranic verse but to establish (Divine decree) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said:We used to say in the times of the Prophet (ﷺ): We do not compare anyone with Abu Bakr. ’Umar came next and then ‘Uthman. We then would leave (rest of) the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) without treating any as superior to other (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was alive, we used to say: The most excellent member of the community of the Prophet (ﷺ) after himself is Abu Bakr, then ‘Umar, then 'Uthman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sufyan al-Thawri said:The Caliphs are five: Abu Bakr, ‘Umar, ‘Uthman, ‘All and ‘Umar b. ‘Abd al-Aziz (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn ‘abbas through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:He refused to tell him (his mistake) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Makhul said:The Romans will enter the Levant and stay there for forty days, and no place will be saved from them but Damascus and 'Uman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-A’yas ‘Abd al-Rahman b. Salam said:A king of the foreigners will come and prevail over all the cities except Damascus (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Makhul reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:The place of the assembly of Muslims at the time of war will be in a land called al-Ghutah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-A’mash said:These clients (i.e., non-Arabs) are to be struck and cut off. I swear by Allah, if I strike a stick with a stick, I would annihilate them like the day that passed away. Al-hamra means clients or non-Arabs (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Safinah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:The caliphate of Prophecy will last thirty years; then Allah will give the Kingdom to whom he wishes; or his kingdom to whom he wishes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. malik said:The prophet of Allah (ﷺ) ascended Uhud, and Abu Bakr, ’Umar and 'Uthman followed him. It began to shake with them. The prophet of Allah (ﷺ) struck it with his foot and said: Be still, for only a prophet, an ever-truthful and two martyrs are on you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:No one of those who took the oath of allegiance under the tree will go to hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying – will be according to the version of Musa :Perhaps Allah, and Ibn Sinan’s version has : Allah looked at the participants of the battle of Badr (with mercy) and said : Do whatever you wish ; I have forgiven you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hudhayfah: There is no one who will be overtaken by trial regarding whom I do not fear except Muhammad ibn Maslamah, for I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Trial will not harm you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Dubai’ah b. Husain al-Tha’labi through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:In the event of the dissension among Muslims an emerging sect will emerge ; one of the two parties that is nearer to the truth will kill it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id al-Khudri reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :Do not distinguish between the Prophets (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying :It is not fitting for a servent to say that I (The Prophet) is better than Jonah son of Matta (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. Ja’far reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:It is not fitting for a prophet to say : I am better than Jonah son of matta (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:A man said to the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him): O best of all creatures! The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) said : That was Abraham (peace be upon him) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :I shall be pre-eminent among the descendants of Adam, the first from whom the earth will be cleft open the first intercessor, and the first whose intercession will be accepted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :I do not know whether Tubba was accursed or not, and ‘Uzair (Azra was a prophet or not) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said :I heard the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) say : I am the nearest of kin among the people to (Jesus) son of Mary. The Prophet are brothers, sons of one father by co-wives. There is no Prophet between me and him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :Between a servant and unbelief there is the abandonment of prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUmamah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone loves for Allah's sake, hates for Allah's sake, gives for Allah's sake and withholds for Allah's sake, he will have perfect faith (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The most perfect believer in respect of faith is he who is best of them in manners (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Explaining the verse, “say ; You have no faith, but you only say :We have submitted our wills to Allah”, Al-Zuhri said : We think that ISLAM is a word, and faith is an action (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa’d said :The Prophet (May peace be upon him) distributed (spoils) among the people I said to him : Give so and so for he is a believer. He said : Or he is a Muslim. I give a man something while another man is dearer to me than him, fearing that he may fall into Hell on his face (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying :Do not turn unbelievers after me ; one of you may strike the neck of the other (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :If any believing man calls another believing man an unbeliever, if he is actually an infidel, it is all right ; if not, he will become an infidel (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :When one commits fornication, one is not a believer ; when one steals, one is not a believer ; when one drinks, one is not a believer ; and repentance is placed before him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When a man commits fornication, faith departs from him and there is something like a canvas roof over his head; and when he quits that action, faith returns to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The Qadariyyah are the Magians of this community. If they are ill, do not pay a sick visit to them, and if they die, do not attend their funerals (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nu’aim b. Rabl’ah said :I was with ‘Umar b. al-Khattab when he transmitted this tradition. The tradition of Malik is more perfect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ubayy b. Ka’b said :The boy whom al-Khidr had killed was created an infidel. Had he lived, he would have moved his parents to rebellion and unbelief (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ubayy b. Ka’b said :I heard the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) explaining the verse “As for the youth his parents were people of Faith,” he was created infidel the day when he was created (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said :Ubayy b. Ka’b told me that the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) said : Al-khidr saw a youth playing with boys. He took him by his head and uprooted it. Moses then said : Hast thou slain an innocent person who had slain none (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Umar reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) was asked :Do not sit which those who believe in free will and do not address them before they address you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas reported that when the Prophet (May peace be upon him) was questioned about the offspring of polytheists, he said :Allah knows best about what they were doing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Explaining the tradition “Every child is a born on Islam”, Hammad b. Salamah said :In our opinion it means that covenant which Allah had taken in the loins of their fathers when He said : “Am I not your Lord? They said: Yes (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said :A man asked : where is my father, Messenger of Allah? He replied! Your father is in Hell. When he turned his back, he said : My father and your father are in Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :The devil flows in a man like his blood (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Umar b. al-Khattab reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :Do not sit with those who believe in free will and do not address them before they address you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Simak through a different chain of narrators to the same effect (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has again been transmitted by Simak through a different chain of narrators and to the same effect as this lengthy tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. ‘Abd Allah reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying :I have been permitted to tell about one of Allah’s angels who bears the throne that the distance between the lobe of his ear and his shoulder is a journey of seven hundred years (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) presented himself to the people at Arafat, saying: Is there any man who takes me to his people? The Quraysh have prevented me from preaching the word of my Lord (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said:I thought in my mind that my affair was far inferior to the speaking of Allah about me with a command that will be recited (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Amir b. Shahr said :I was with the Negus when his son recited a verse of the Gospel. So I laughed. Thereupon he said : Do you laugh at the word of Allah, the Exalted? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: My intercession will be for those of my people who have committed major sins (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Imran b. Husain reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as saying:People will come forth from Hell by Muhammad’s intercession, will enter paradise and be named Jahannamis (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said:I heard the Prophet(ﷺ) say: Those who go to Paradise will eat in it and drink (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The trumpet (sur) which will be blown (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Apostle of AllSah(ﷺ) as saying:Every son of Adam will be devoured by the earth with the exception of the tail-bone from which he was created and from which he will be reconstituted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) as saying:Before you there will be a pond the distance between whose sides is like that between Jarbah and Adhruh (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Al-Bara’ (b. ‘Azib) from the prophet (May peace be upon him) through a different chain of narrators is a similar way (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who separates from the community within a span takes off the noose of Islam from his neck (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Arfajah told that he heard the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :various corruptions will arise in my community, so strike with sword the one who tries to cause separation in the matter of Muslims when they are united, whoever he be (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Anas through a different chain of narrators in a similar manner. This version adds; Their sign is shaving the head and eliminating the hair. If you see them, kill them. Abu Dawud said:Tasmid means uprooting the hair (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If the property of anyone is designed to be taken away without any right and he fights and is killed, he is a martyr (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'id ibn Zayd: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who is killed while protecting his property is a martyr, and he who is killed while defending his family, or his blood, or his religion is a martyr (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: I served the Prophet (ﷺ) at Medina for ten years. I was a boy. Every work that I did was not according to the desire of my master, but he never said to me: Fie, nor did he say to me: Why did you do this? or Why did you not do this? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Good way, dignified good bearing and moderation are the twenty-fifth part of Prophecy (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah (b. Mas`ud) reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Whom do you consider a wrestler among you? The people replied: (the man) whom the men cannot defeat in wrestling. He said: No, it is he who controls himself when he is angry (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to us: When one of you becomes angry while standing, he should sit down. If the anger leaves him, well and good; otherwise he should lie down (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Bakr said:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh for some of his work. He then transmitted the rest of the tradition mentioned above. Abu Dawud said: This tradition is sounder of the two traditions (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’isha said:the Messenger of Allah (saws ) never struck a servant or a woman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Explaining the Qur’anic verse “Hold to forgiveness”, `Abd Allah b. Al-Zubair said:The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) was commanded to hold to forgiveness from the conduct of the people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When the Prophet (ﷺ) was informed of anything of a certain man, he would not say: What is the matter with so and so that he says? But he would say: What is the matter with the people that they say such and such? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSalamah ; AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The believer is simple and generous, but the profligate is deceitful and ignoble (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has been transmitted by `A’isha through a different chain of narrators. This version has:the Prophet (ﷺ) said: `A’isha! There are some bad people who are respected for fear of their tongues (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. ‘Umar said:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a man of the Ansar when he was giving his brother a warning against modesty. The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said : Leave him alone, for modesty is a part of faith (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Mas`ud reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :One of the things people have learnt from the words of the earliest prophecy is : If you have no shame, do what you like (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: By his good character a believer will attain the degree of one who prays during the night and fasts during the day (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Harithah b. Wahab reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :neither the Jawwaz nor the Jazari will enter paradise. He said that the Jawwaz is the one who is coarse and uncivil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrating this story Anas reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:It is Allah’s right that nothing should become exalted in the world but he lowers it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hammam said :A man came and praised ‘Uthman in his face, al-Miqdad b. Al-Aswad took dust and threw it on his face, saying : The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said : When you see those who are given to praising people, throw dust in their faces (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah b. Mughaffal reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying :Allah is gentle, likes gentleness, and gives for gentleness what he does not give for harshness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jarir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who is deprived of gentleness is deprived of good (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'd: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is hesitation in everything except in the actions of the next world (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who does not thank the people is not thankful to Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Immigrants (Muhajirun) said: Messenger of Allah! the Helpers (Ansar) got the entire reward. He said: no, so long as you pray to Allah for them and praise them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If someone is donated something, and he mentions it, he thanks for it, and if he conceals it, he is ungrateful for it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying on the same occasion:And guiding the people on their way (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: the same occasion: Help the oppressed (sorrowful) and guide those who have lost their way (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas reported this tradition to the same effect through a different chain of narrators. This version adds:A woman who had something (feebleness) in her mind (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: The best places to sit are those which provide most room. Abu Dawud said: The name of 'Abd al-Rahman b. Abi 'Amr is 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Amr b. Abi 'Umrat al-Ansari (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: AbulQasim (ﷺ) said: When one of you is in the sun (Shams)--Makhlad's version has "fay'"--and the shadow withdraws from him so that he is partly in sun and partly in shade, he should get up (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Qais quoted his father as saying that he (his father) came when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was addressing. He stood in the sun. He ordered him (to shift) and he shifted to the shade (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah said:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered the mosque, and saw them (his companions) in separate groups. He said: How is it that I see you in separate groups? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-A`mash said:It seems he liked collective gathering (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Samurah: When we came to the Prophet (ﷺ), each one would sit down where there was room (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hudhayfah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the one who sat in the middle of a circle (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ), another man got up from his place for him, and when he went to sit in it, the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade him. Abu Dawud said: The name of Abu al-Khusaib is Ziyad b. 'Abd al-Rahman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Anas b. Malik from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators in a similar way (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Associate only with a believer, and let only a God-fearing man eat your meals (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A man follows the religion of his friend; so each one should consider whom he makes his friend (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:The spirits are in marshaled hosts; those who know one another will be friendly, and those who do not, will keep apart (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Musa reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Gladden people and do not scare them; make things easy and do not make them difficult (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Salam: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat talking (to the people), he would often raise his eyes to the sky (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spoke in a distinct and leisurely manner (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spoke in a distinct manner so that anyone who listened to him could understand it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Every sermon which does not contain a tashahhud is like a hand cut off (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMusa al-Ash'ari: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Glorifying Allah involves showing honour to a grey-haired Muslim and to one who can expound the Qur'an, but not to one who acts extravagantly regarding it, or turns away from it, and showing honour to a just ruler (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: One should not sit between two men except with their permission (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: It is not lawful for a man to separate two persons except with their permission (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat, he had his knees drawn up supported by his hands. Abu Dawud said: 'Abd Allah b. Ibrahim was an old man and his traditions were rejected (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qaylah daughter of Makhramah: She saw the Prophet (ﷺ) sitting with his arms round his legs. She said: When I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in such humble condition in the sitting position (according to Musa's version), I trembled with fear (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Amr b. al-Sharid quoted his father al-Sharid b. Suwaid as saying:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came upon me when I was sitting thus: having my left hand behind my back and leaning on the fleshy part of it, and said: Are you sitting in the manner of those with whom Allah is angry? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Barzah said:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade sleeping before the night prayer and talking after it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir b. Samurah said:When the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed the dawn prayer, he sat cross-legged where he was till the sun had come well up (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abd Allah (b. Mas`ud) reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Two persons should not talk privately ignoring the third, for that will grieve him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has been transmitted by Ibn `Umar through a different chain of narrators. This version has:Abu Salih said: I asked Ibn `Umar: If they are four? He replied: Then it does not harm you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbudDarda': The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would sit and we would also sit around him. If he got up intending to return, he would take off his sandals or something he was wearing, and his Companions recognising his purpose (that he would return) would stay where they were (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: People who get up from an assembly in which they did not remember Allah will be just as if they had got up from an ass's corpse, and it will be a cause of grief to them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone sits at a place where he does not remember Allah, deprivation will descend on him from Allah; and if he lies at a place where he does not remember Allah, deprivation will descend on him from Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Hurairah from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: None of my Companions must tell me anything about anyone, for I like to come out to you with no ill-feelings (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet(ﷺ) as saying:A believer is not stung twice from the same hole (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:when the Prophet(ﷺ) walked, it looked as if he bent forwards (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa’id al-Jariri quoted Abu al-Tufail as saying:I saw the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ). I asked: How did you see him? He said: He was white, good-looking, and when he walked, it looked as if he was descending to a low ground (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) forbade that a man should lie placing(and according to Qutaibah’s version: “should raise”) one of his legs over the other. Qutaibah’s version adds: When he was lying on his back (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abbad b. Tamim quoted his paternal uncle as saying that he had seen the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) lying on his back in the mosque according to Qa’nabi’s version) placing one foot over the other (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa’id b. al-musayyab said :‘Umar b. al-khattab and ‘Uthman b. ‘Affan used to do that (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When a man tells something and then departs, it is a trust (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Meetings are confidential except three: those for the purpose of shedding blood unlawfully, or committing fornication, or acquiring property unjustly (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu sa’id al-khudri reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:The most serious breach of trust in Allah’s sight is that a man who has intercourse with his wife, and she with him, spreads her secret (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hudhaifah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :A mischief-maker will not enter paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying:The worst of the people is a man who is double-faced; he presents one face to some and another to others (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ammar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who is two-faced in this world will have two tongues of fire on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sa'id ibn Zayd: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The most prevalent kind of usury is going to lengths in talking unjustly against a Muslim's honour (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The gravest sin is going to lengths in talking unjustly against a Muslim's honour, and it is a major sin to abuse twice for abusing once (from eng-abudawud.txt)
This tradition has also been transmitted by ‘Isa b. Abi ‘Isa al-sailahini from Abu al-Mughirah, as Ibn al-musaffa said (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :Everything of a Muslim is sacred to a Muslim : his property, honour and blood. It is enough evil for any man to despise his brother Muslim (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qatadah: Is one of you helpless to be like AbuDaygham or Damdam (Ibn Ubayd is doubtful) who would say when morning came: O Allah, I gave my honour as alms to Thy servants? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Miqdam ibn Ma'dikarib ; AbuUmamah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When a ruler seeks to make imputations against the people, he corrupts them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: Zayd ibn Wahb said: A man was brought to Ibn Mas'ud. He was told: This is so and so, and wine was dropping from his beard. Abdullah thereupon said: We have been prohibited to seek out (faults). If anything becomes manifest to us, we shall seize it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Uqbah ibn Amir: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who sees something which should be kept hidden and conceals it will be like one who has brought to life a girl buried alive (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:when two men abuse one another, what they say is laid to the charge of the one who began it, so long as the one who is wronged does not go over the score (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Iyad ibn Himar (al-Mujashi'i): The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Allah has revealed to me that you must be humble, so that no one oppresses another and boasts over another (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A’ishah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :When your companion dies, leave him and do not revile him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Make a mention of the virtues of your dead, and refrain from (mentioning) their evils (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBakrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is no sin more fitted to have punishment meted out by Allah to its perpetrator in advance in this world along with what He stores up for him in the next world than oppression and severing ties of relationship (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Avoid envy, for envy devours good deeds just as fire devours fuel or (he said) "grass (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Samurah ibn Jundub: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not invoke Allah's curse, Allah's anger, or Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu al-Darda’ said :I heard the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) say: Men given to cursing will not be witnesses or intercessors (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Something of her was stolen, and she began to curse him (i.e. the thief). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to her: Do not lessen his sin (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: It is not right for a Muslim to keep apart from another Muslim for more than three days. Then when he meets him and gives three salutations, receiving during that time no response, the other bears his sin (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: It is not allowable for a Muslim to keep apart from his brother for more than three days, for one who does so and dies will enter Hell (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuKhirash as-Sulami: AbuKhirash heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: If one keeps apart from his brother for a year, it is like shedding his blood (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:Avoid suspicion for suspicion is the most lying form of talk. Do not be inquisitive about one another, or spy on one another (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The believer is the believer's mirror, and the believer is the believer's brother who guards him against loss and protects him when he is absent (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to Medina, the Abyssinians played for his coming out of joy; they played with spears (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi said :I was sitting behind Ibn ‘Umar on the mount when he passed a shepherd who was blowing a pipe. He then mentioned the rest of the tradition in a similar manner. Abu Dawud said : Between Mut’im and Nafi the name of a narrator Sulaiman b. Musa has been inserted (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi said :When we were with Ibn ‘Umar, he heard the sound of a man who was blowing a pipe. He then mentioned a similar tradition. Abu Dawud said : This is more rejected (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said:The Prophet (May peace be upon him) cursed effeminate men (mukhannathan) and women who imitated men, saying: Put them out of your houses, and put so-and-so out. (that is to say, the effeminate men) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said :I used to play with dolls. Sometimes the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) entered upon me when the girls were with me. When he came in, they went out, and when he went out, they came in (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said :We came to Medina and stayed with Banu al-Harith b. al-Khazraj. She said : I swear by Allah, I was swinging between two date-palms. Then my mother came down; and I had my hair up to the ears. The transmitter then rest of the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuMusa al-Ash'ari: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who plays backgammon disobeys Allah and His Apostle (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Buraidah reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying :If anyone plays backgammon, he sinks his hand in the flesh of swine and its blood (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a man pursuing a pigeon. He said: A devil is pursuing a female devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: I heard AbulQasim (ﷺ) who spoke the truth and whose word was verified say: Mercy is taken away only from him who is miserable (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Those who do not show mercy to our young ones and do not realise the right of our elders are not from us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hudhaifah said :Your prophet (May peace be upon him) said : Every good act is a SADAQAH (almsgiving) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbudDarda': The Prophet (ﷺ) said: On the Day of Resurrection you will be called by your names and by your father's names, so give yourselves good names (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :Your names which are dearest to Allah are ‘Abd Allah and ‘Abd al-Rahman (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuWahb al-Jushami: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Call yourselves by the names of the Prophets. The names dearest to Allah are Abdullah and AbdurRahman, the truest are Harith and Hammam, and the worst are Harb and Murrah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said :The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) changed the name of ‘Asiyah and called her Jamilah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Usamah ibn Akhdari: A man called Asram was among those who came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: What is your name? He replied: Asram. He said: No, you are Zur'ah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umar ibn al-Khattab: Masruq said: I met Umar ibn al-Khattab (Allah be pleased with him) who said: Who are you? I replied: Masruq ibn al-Ajda'. Umar then said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: al-Ajda' (mutilated) is a devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Samurah said:The Aposlte of Allah (May peace be upon him) forbade giving four names to our slaves : Aflah (successful), Yasar (wealth), Naf(beneficial) and Rabah (profit) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him: My sonny. Abu Dawud said: I heard Yahya b. Ma'in praising the transmitter Muhammad b. Mahbub, and he said: He transmitted a large number of traditions (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Sufyan ibn Asid al-Hadrami: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: It is great treachery that you should tell your brother something and have him believe you when you are lying (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Zaid b. Arqam said that the Prophet (May peace be upon him) addressed them, saying :To proceed (amma ba’d) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :None of you should Call (grapes) karm, for the karm is a Muslim man, but call (grapes) garden of grapes (hada’iq al-a’nab) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Hurairah through a different chain of narrators. This version does not mention the Prophet (May peace be upon him) i.e, it does not go back to him. It has :He must say: “My master” (sayyidi) and “My patron” (mawlaya) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Buraydah ibn al-Hasib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not call a hypocrite sayyid (master), for if he is a sayyid, you will displease your Lord, Most High (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Umamah b. Sahl b. Hunaif quoted his father as saying :None of you must say Khabuthat nafsi (My heart is heaving), but one should say Laqisat nafsi (My heart is being annoyed) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying:None of you should say Ja’shat nafsi (My heart is being agitated), but one should say Laqisat nafsi (My heart is being annoyed) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hudhayfah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not say: "What Allah wills and so and so wills," but say: "What Allah wills and afterwards so and so wills (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Adl b. Hatim said:A speaker gave sermon before the prophet (May peace be upon him). He said : he who obeys Allah and his Prophet will follow the right course, and he who disobeys them. He (The prophet) said: get up; he said: go away, a bad speaker you are (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying:The desert Arabs may not dominate you in respect of the name of your prayer. Beware! It is al-`Isha, but they milk their camels when it is fairly dark (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: I never heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) attributing anyone to anything except to religion (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:The people of Madina were started. The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) rode on the horse belonging to Abu Talhah. He said: We did not see anything, or he said: we did not see (find) any fear. I found it (could run) like a river (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah ibn Jaydah al-Qushayri: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Woe to him who tells things, speaking falsely, to make people laugh thereby. Woe to him! Woe to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: To harbour good thoughts is a part of well-conducted worship. (This is according to Nasr's version). Abu Dawud said: Mahna' is reliable and he is from Basrah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd ibn Arqam: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When a man makes a promise to his brother with the intention of fulfilling it and does not do so, and does not come at the appointed time, he is guilty of no sin (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Uthman b. Abu 'Atikah said :The only reason why he asked whether the whole of him should come in was because of the smallness of the tent (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) addressed me as: O you with the two ears (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Allah , the Exalted, hates the eloquent one among men who moves his tongue round (among his teeth), as cattle do (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: On the Day of resurrection Allah will not accept repentance or ransom from him who learns excellence of speech to captivate thereby the hearts of men, or of people (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. ‘Umar said :When two men who came from the east made a speech and the people were charmed with their eloquence, the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) said: In some eloquent speech there is magic (from eng-abudawud.txt)
One day when a man got up and spoke at length Amr ibn al-'As said If he had been moderate in what he said:It would have been better for him. I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: I think (or, I have been commanded) that I should be brief in what I say, for brevity is better (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ubayy b. Ka’b reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying :In poetry there is wisdom (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: A desert Arab came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and began to speak. Thereupon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: In eloquence there is magic and in poetry there is wisdom (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sa'id said:Umar passed by Hassan when he was reciting verses in the mosque. He looked at him. Thereupon he said: I used to recite verses when there was present in it the one who was better than you (i.e. the Prophet) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mention above has also been transmitted by Sa’id b. al-Musayyab through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. This version adds:so he (‘Umar’) feared that he would refer to the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him); therefore he allowed him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said :The verse “And the poets it is those straying in evil who follow them. He (Allah) then abrogated it and made an exception saying: Except those who believe and work righteousness, engage much in the remembrance of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) finished the dawn prayer, he would ask: Did any of you have a dream last night? And he said: All that is left of Prophecy after me is a good vision (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Ubadah b. al-Samit reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying :A believer’s vision is the forty-sixth part of Prophecy (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuRazin: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: The vision flutters over a man as long as it is not interpreted , but when it is interpreted, it settles. And I think he said: Tell it only to one who loves (i.e. friend) or one who has judgment (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :When one of you sees a vision which he dislikes, he must spit on his left (three times), seek refuge in Allah from the devil three times, and turn from the side on which he was lying (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said :I heard the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) say : He who sees me in a dream will see me when awake or as if he will see me when awake, for the devil does not take my likeness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Sa’id al-Khudri reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:When one of you yawns, he should hold his hand over his mouth, for the devil enters (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted in a similar way by Suhail through a different chain of narrators. This version has; “during prayer, so he should hold as far as possible” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:Allah likes sneezing but dislikes yawning. So when one of you yawns, he should restrain it as much as possible, and should not say Ha, Ha, for that is from the devil who laughs at him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sneezed, he placed his hand or a garment on his mouth, and lessened the noise. The transmitter Yahya is doubtful about the exact words khafada or ghadda (lessened) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Salim ibn Ubayd al-Ashja'i: The tradition mentioned above (No. 5013) has also been mentioned by Salim ibn Ubayd al-Ashja'i to the same effect from the Prophet (ﷺ) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: Respond three times to your brother when he sneezes, and if he sneezes more often, he has a cold in his head (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ubayd ibn Rifa'ah az-Zuraqi: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Invoke a blessing on one who sneezes three times; (and if he sneezes more often), then if you wish to invoke a blessing on him, you may invoke, and if you wish (to stop), then stop (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Salamah b. al-Akwa said :when a man sneezed beside the prophet (May peace be upon him), he said to him : Allah have mercy on you, but when he sneezed again, he said : The man has a cold in the head (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuBurdah: The Jews used to try to sneezes in the presence of the Prophet (ﷺ) hoping that he would say to them: "Allah have mercy on you!" but he would say: May Allah guide you and grant you well-being (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn Shayban: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone spends the night on the roof of a house with no stone palisade, Allah's responsibility to guard him no longer applies (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) got up at night, fulfilled his need and washed his face and hand and then slept. Abu Dawud said: that is to say, he urinated (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah, Ummul Mu'minin: Some relative of Umm Salamah said: The bed of the Prophet (ﷺ) was set as a man is laid in his grave; the mosque was towards his head (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Hafsah, Ummul Mu'minin: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wanted to go to sleep, he put his right hand under his cheek and would then say three times: O Allah, guard me from Thy punishment on the day when Thou raisest up Thy servants (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Al-Bara b. Azib said :The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) said to me: when you go to bed while you are in the state of purification, lay your head on your right hand. He then mentioned the rest of the tradition in a similar manner as above (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Hudhaifah said :when the prophet (May peace be upon him) lay down on his bed (at night), he would say: O Allah! In Thy name I die and live. When he awoke, he said: praise be to Allah who has given us life after causing us to die and to whom we shall be resurrected (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:When the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) went to his bed, he would say: Praise be to Allah who has fed us, given us drink, satisfied us and given us refuge. Many there are who have no one to provide sufficiency for them, or give them refuge (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Farwah b. Nawfal quoted his father as saying that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Nawfal (his father):Recite (the Surah) 'Say, O you disbelievers!' and then go to sleep at its end, for it is a declaration of freedom from polytheism (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Irbad ibn Sariyah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite al-Musabbihat before going to sleep, and say: They contain a verse which is better than a thousand verses (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has been transmitted by Aban b. ‘Uthman, from ‘Uthman, from the prophet (May peace be upon him). This version does not mention the story of paralysis (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Qatadah: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw the new moon, he turned away his face from it. Abu Dawud said: On this subject there is no tradition which has perfect chain and is sound (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw a cloud formation in the sky, he left work, even if he were at prayer, and then would say: "O Allah! I seek refuge in Thee from its evil. " If it rained, he would say: "O Allah! send a beneficial downpour (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Zayd ibn Khalid: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Do not curse the cock, for it awakens for prayer (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying:when you hear the cocks crowing, ask Allah for some of His grace, for they have seen as angel; but when you hear an ass braying, seek refuge in Allah from the devil, for it has seen the devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Jabir ibn Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When you hear the barking of dogs and the braying of asses at night, seek refuge in Allah, for they see which you do not see (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuRafi': I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) uttering the call to prayer (Adhan) in the ear of al-Hasan ibn Ali when Fatimah gave birth to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: Boys used to be brought to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he would invoke blessings on them. Yusuf added: "and soften some dates and rub their palates with them". He did not mention "blessings (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Aisha, Ummul Mu'minin: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: Have the mugharribun been seen (or some other word) among you? I asked: What do the mugharribun mean? He replied: They are those in whom is a strain of the jinn (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone asks (you) for refuge for the sake of Allah, give him refuge; and if anyone asks you (for something) for the pleasure of Allah, give him. Ubaydullah said: If anyone asks you for the sake of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said; His companion came to him and said; Messenger of Allah! We have thoughts which we cannot dare talk about and we do not like that we have them or talk about them. He said:Have you experienced that? They replied: yes. He said : that is clear faith (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: If anyone helps his people in an unrighteous cause, he is like a camel which falls into a well and is pulled out by its tail (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. Mas’ud said :I went to the prophet (May peace be upon him) when he was in a skin tent. He then mentioned something similar to it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Wathilah ibn al-Asqa': I asked: Messenger of Allah! what is party spirit? He replied: That you should help your people in wrongdoing (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Suraqah ibn Malik ibn Ju'sham al-Mudlaji: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave us an address and said: The best of you is the one who defends his tribe, so long as he commits no sin. Abu Dawud said: Abu Ayyub b. Suwaid is weak (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jubair b. Mut’im reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:he who summons others to party-spirit does not belong to us; and he who dies upholding party spirit does not belong to us.’ (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Musa reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:the son of a sister of a people belongs to them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdam ibn Ma'dikarib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When a man loves his brother, he should tell him that he loves him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who is consulted is trustworthy (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbudDarda': The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Your love for a thing causes blindness and deafness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Musa reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:Make intercession to me, you will be rewarded, for Allah decrees what he wishes by the tongue of his prophet (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah: Make intercession, you will be rewarded, for I purposely delay a matter so that you intercede and then you are rewarded. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: If you make intercession, you will be rewarded (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Abu Musa from the prophet (May peace be upon him) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated al-Ala' ibn al-Hadrami: Some of the children of al-Ala' ibn al-Hadrami said: Al-Ala' ibn al-Hadrami was the governor of the Prophet (ﷺ) at al-Bahrayn, and when he wrote to him he began with his won name (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn al-Ala said :Al-Ala b. al-Hadrami wrote to the prophet (May peace be upon him), and he began with his name (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:A son does not repay what he owes to his father unless he buys him and emancipates him if he finds him in slavery (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: A woman was my wife and I loved her, but Umar hated her. He said to me: Divorce her, but I refused. Umar then went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and mentioned that to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Divorce her (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:One of the finest acts of kindness is for a man to treat his father’s friends in a kindly way after he has departed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone has a female child, and does not bury her alive, or slight her, or prefer his children (i.e. the male ones) to her, Allah will bring him into Paradise. Uthman did not mention "male children (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuSa'id al-Khudri: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone cares for three daughters, disciplines them, marries them, and does good to them, he will go to Paradise (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Suhail through a different chain of narrators to the same effect. This version has :“three sisters, or three daughter, or two daughter, or two sisters” (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Sahl (b. Sa’d) reported the prophet (May peace be upon him) as saying; I and the one who takes the responsibility of an orphan will be in Paradise thus, and he joined his middle finger and forefinger (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:Gabriel kept on commending the neighbor to me so that I thought he would make him an heir (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said:I asked : apostle of Allah! I have two neighbors. With which of them should I begin? He replied: Begin with the one whose door is nearer to you. Abu Dawud said: Shu’bah said this tradition : Talhah is a man of the Quraish (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: The last words which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spoke were: Prayer, prayer; fear Allah about those whom your right hands possess (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by al-A’mash in a similar way to same way to the same effect through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Feed those of your slaves who please you from what you eat and clothe them with what you clothe yourselves, but sell those who do not please you and do not punish Allah's creatures (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Rafi' ibn Makith: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Treating those under one's authority will produce prosperity, but an evil nature produces evil fortune (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Rafi' ibn Makith: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Treating those under one's authority well produces prosperity, but an evil nature produces evil fortune (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked: Messenger of Allah! how often shall I forgive a servant? He gave no reply, so the man repeated what he had said, but he still kept silence. When he asked a third time, he replied: Forgive him seventy times daily (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:Abu al-Qasim, the Prophet of Atonement (ﷺ) said to me: If anyone reviles his slave when he is innocent of what he said, he will be beaten on the Day of Resurrection. The transmitter Mu'ammal said: 'Isa narrated it to us from al-Fudial, that is, Ibn Ghazwan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. ‘Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:when a slave acts sincerely towards his master and worship Allah well, he will have a double reward (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone corrupts (instigates) the wife of a man or his slave (against him), he is not from us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If anyone peeps into the house of a people without their permission and he knocks out his eye, no responsibility is incurred for his eye (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one has a look into the house, then there is no (need of) permission (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar tradition has also been transmitted by Talhah b. Musarrif from a man from Sa’d from the prophet (May peace be upon him) through a different chain of narrators (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Rib’i said that a man of Banu Amir told him that he asked permission of the prophet (May peace be upon him) to enter the house. He related the tradition to the same effect, saying :I heard it and so I said: Peace be upon you. May I enter? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Busr: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to some people's door, he did not face it squarely, but faced the right or left corner, and said: Peace be upon you! peace be upon you! That was because there were no curtains on the doors of the house at that time (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Jabir said that he went to the prophet (ﷺ) about the debt of my father. He said :I knocked at the door. He asked : who is there? I replied: it is I. he said: I, as though he disapproved of it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: A man's messenger sent to another indicates his permission to enter (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you is invited to take meals and comes along with the messenger, that serves as permission for him to enter. Abu 'Ali al-Lu'lu said: I heard Abu Dawud say: Qatadah did not hear anything from Abu Rafi (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd Allah b. ‘Amr said :A man asked the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him): When aspect of Islam is best? He replied: that you should provide food and greet both those you know and those you do not know (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh ibn Anas: (This version is same as previous No 5176 from the Prophet (ﷺ), adding that): Afterwards another man came and said: Peace and Allah's mercy, blessings and forgiveness be upon you! whereupon he said: Forty. adding: Thus are excellent qualities rewarded (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUmamah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Those who are nearest to Allah are they who are first to give a salutation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :The young should salute the old, the one who is passing by should salute the one who is sitting, and a small company should salute a large one (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying:one who is riding should salute one who is walking. He then mentioned the rest of the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: Umar came to the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was in his wooden oriel, and said to him: Peace be upon you. Messenger of Allah, peace be upon you! May Umar enter ? (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to some children who were playing: He saluted them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to us when I was a boy among the boys. He saluted us and took me by my hand. He then sent me with some message. He himself sat in the shadow of a wall, or he said: near a wall until I returned to him (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Asma', daughter of Yazid, said :the Prophet (ﷺ), passed us by when we were with some women and gave us a salutation (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Anas said:The Companions of the prophet (ﷺ) said to the prophet (ﷺ): The people of the Book salute us. How should we reply to them? He said: say : the same to you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: When one of you comes to an assembly, he should give a salutation and if he feels inclined to get up, he should give a salutation, for the former is not more of a duty than the latter (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuJurayy al-Hujaymi: I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: Upon you be peace, Messenger of Allah! He said: Do not say: Upon you be peace, for "Upon you be peace" is the salutation to the dead (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ali ibn AbuTalib: AbuDawud said: Al-Hasan ibn Ali traced this tradition back to the Prophet (ﷺ): When people are passing by, it is enough if one of them gives a salutation on their behalf, and that it is enough for those who are sitting if one of them replies (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: If two Muslims meet, shake hands, praise Allah, and ask Him for forgiveness, they will be forgiven (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Two Muslims will not meet and shake hands having their sins forgiven them before they separate (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Anas ibn Malik: When the people of the Yemen came, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The people of the Yemen have come to you and they are first to shake hands (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Shu’bah through a different chain of narrators. This version has :when he came near the mosque, he said to the Ansar; stand up showing respect to your chief (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah said; Al-Aqra’ b. Habib saw that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) was kissing Husain. He said:I have ten children and I have never kissed any of them. The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: He who does not show tenderness will not be shown tenderness (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah said :the prophet (ﷺ) said; Good tidings to you, ‘A’ishah, for Allah Most High has revealed your innocence. He then recited to her the Quranic verses. Her parents said: Kiss the head of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). I said : Praise be to Allah, most High, not to you (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ash-Sha'bi: The Prophet (ﷺ) received Ja'far ibn AbuTalib, embraced him and kissed him between both of his eyes (forehead) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuNadrah: Ilyas ibn Dighfal said: I saw AbuNadrah kissing on the cheek of al-Hasan (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' ibn Azib: I went in with AbuBakr when he had newly come to Medina and he found his daughter Aisha lying down afflicted with fever. AbuBakr went to her, and saying: How are you, girlie? kissed her on the cheek (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: Ibn Umar told a story and said: We then came near the Prophet (ﷺ) and kissed his hand (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuDharr: The Prophet (ﷺ) addressed me, saying: O AbuDharr! I replied: At thy service and at thy pleasure, Messenger of Allah! may I be ransom for thee (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Qatadah said:The Prophet (ﷺ) was on journey. The people became thirsty, and they went quickly. I guarded the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) on that night. He said: May Allah guard you for the reason you have guarded His Prophet (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuUmamah: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out to us leaning on a stick. We stood up to show respect to him. He said: Do not stand up as foreigners do for showing respect to one another (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘A’ishah told that the Prophet(ﷺ) said to her:Gabriel gives you a greeting. Replying she said: Upon him be peace and grace of Allah (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Ibn Kinanah b. Abbas ibn Mirdas: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) laughed AbuBakr or Umar said to him: May Allah make your teeth laugh! He then mentioned the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-'As: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came upon us when my mother and I were plastering a wall of mine. He asked: What is this, Abdullah ? I replied: It is something I am repairing. He said! The matter is quicker for you than that (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Dukayn ibn Sa'id al-Muzani: We came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and asked him for some corn. He said: Go, Umar, and give them. He ascended with us a room upstairs, took a key from his apartment and opened it (from eng-abudawud.txt)
A similar report (as previous) was narrated from a man from Thaqif, from 'Urwah bin Az-Zubair, who attributed the Hadith to the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Abu Dharr through a different chain of narrators. In this version the transmitter mentioned the Prophet(ﷺ) in the middle of the tradition (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Salim quoting his father(Ibn ‘Umar) said( sometimes he traced back to the Prophet(ﷺ):Do not leave a fire burning in your houses while you are asleep (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: We have not made peace with them since we fought with them, so he who leaves any of them alone through fear does not belong to us (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Kill all the snakes, and he who fears their revenge does not belong to me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: He who leaves the snakes along through fear of their pursuit, does not belong to us. We have not made peace with them since we have fought with them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Al-Abbas ibn AbdulMuttalib: Al-Abbas said to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): We wish to sweep out Zamzam, but in it there are some of these Jinnan, meaning small snakes; so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered that they should be killed (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Lubabah said:The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) prohibited killing the jinnan(small snakes) that are in the house, except the one which have two streaks and the one with small tail, for they obliterate the eyesight and cause miscarriage (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Nafi said:After that, that is, after Abu Lubabah had mentioned him this tradition, Ibn ‘Umar found a snake in his house; he commanded regarding it and it was driven away to al-Baqi (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Nafi through a different chain of transmitters. In this version Nafi said:After that I saw it again in his house (from eng-abudawud.txt)
The tradition mentioned above has also been transmitted by Ibn 'Ajilan through a different chain of narrators briefly. This version has:He should give it a warning three times. If it appears to him after that, he should kill it, for it is a devil (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Mas'ud: Kill all the snakes except the little white one which looks like a silver wand. Abu Dawud said: A man said to me: A white snake does not wind in its movement. If it is correct, that is a sign in it, if Allah wills (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Amir b. Sa’d, quoting his father, said :The Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) ordered a gecko to be killed, and calling it a noxious little creature (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbuHurayrah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: For the first blow seventy good deeds will be recorded (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) as saying :An ant stung a prophet. He ordered a colony of ants to be burned. Allah revealed to him : because an ant stung you, you have perished a community which glorifies Me (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited to kill four creatures: ants, bees, hoopoes, and sparrow-hawks (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated AbdurRahman ibn Uthman: When a physician consulted the Prophet (ﷺ) about putting frogs in medicine, he forbade him to kill them (from eng-abudawud.txt)
‘Abd b. Mughaffal said :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited throwing pebbles (in sport) saying : game is not caught by such means. Neither is an enemy injured, but it may sometimes put out an eye or break a tooth (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated Abdullah ibn Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited that one, i.e. man, should walk between two women (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported the prophet (ﷺ) as saying:Allah most high says : “The son of Adam injures me by abusing time, whereas I am time. Authority is in my hand. I alternate the night and the day”. Ibn al-Sarh said: “on the authority of Ibn al-Musayyab instead of Sa’id’ (from eng-abudawud.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with his tongue and hands. And a Muhajir (emigrant) is the one who gives up (abandons) all what Allah has forbidden (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa: Some people asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Whose Islam is the best? i.e. (Who is a very good Muslim)?" He replied, "One who avoids harming the Muslims with his tongue and hands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr: A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) , "What sort of deeds or (what qualities of) Islam are good?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, 'To feed (the poor) and greet those whom you know and those whom you do not Know (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you will have faith till he wishes for his (Muslim) brother what he likes for himself (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my life is, none of you will have faith till he loves me more than his father and his children (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said "None of you will have faith till he loves me more than his father, his children and all mankind (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Love for the Ansar is a sign of faith and hatred for the Ansar is a sign of hypocrisy (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Said Al-Khudri: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A time will soon come when the best property of a Muslim will be sheep which he will take on the top of mountains and the places of rainfall (valleys) so as to flee with his religion from afflictions (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah (bin 'Umar): Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by an Ansari (man) who was admonishing his brother regarding Haya'. On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Leave him as Haya' is a part of faith." (See Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr: A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . "What (sort of) deeds in or (what qualities of) Islam are good?" He replied, "To feed (the poor) and greet those whom you know and those whom you don't know (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever establishes the prayers on the night of Qadr out of sincere faith and hoping to attain Allah's rewards (not to show off) then all his past sins will be forgiven (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: "Whoever establishes prayers during the nights of Ramadan faithfully out of sincere faith and hoping to attain Allah's rewards (not for showing off), all his past sins will be forgiven (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever observes fasts during the month of Ramadan out of sincere faith, and hoping to attain Allah's rewards, then all his past sins will be forgiven (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you improve (follows strictly) his Islamic religion then his good deeds will be rewarded ten times to seven hundred times for each good deed and a bad deed will be recorded as it is (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (an evil doing) and killing him is Kufr (disbelief) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a man spends on his family (with the intention of having a reward from Allah) sincerely for Allah's sake then it is a (kind of) alms-giving in reward for him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You will be rewarded for whatever you spend for Allah's sake even if it were a morsel which you put in your wife's mouth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin Abdullah: I gave the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for the following: 1. offer prayers perfectly 2. pay the Zakat (obligatory charity) 3. and be sincere and true to every Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to take care of us in preaching by selecting a suitable time, so that we might not get bored. (He abstained from pestering us with sermons and knowledge all the time) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Facilitate things to people (concerning religious matters), and do not make it hard for them and give them good tidings and do not make them run away (from Islam) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) embraced me and said, "O Allah! Bestow on him the knowledge of the Book (Qur'an) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mahmud bin Rabi`a:When I was a boy of five, I remember, the Prophet (ﷺ) took water from a bucket (used for getting water out of a well) with his mouth and threw it on my face (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) asked permission to enter, he knocked the door thrice with greeting and whenever he spoke a sentence (said a thing) he used to repeat it thrice. (See Hadith No. 261, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) spoke a sentence (said a thing), he used to repeat it thrice so that the people could understand it properly from him and whenever he asked permission to enter, (he knocked the door) thrice with greeting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:as above (the sub narrators are different). Abu Huraira qualified the three children referred to in the above mentioned Hadith as not having reached the age of committing sins (i.e. age of puberty) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not tell a lie against me for whoever tells a lie against me (intentionally) then he will surely enter the Hell-fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The fact which stops me from narrating a great number of Hadiths to you is that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever tells a lie against me intentionally, then (surely) let him occupy his seat in Hell-fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever (intentionally) ascribes to me what I have not said then (surely) let him occupy his seat in Hell-fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:There is none among the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) who has narrated more Hadiths than I except `Abdullah bin `Amr (bin Al-`As) who used to write them and I never did the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I have memorized two kinds of knowledge from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . I have propagated one of them to you and if I propagated the second, then my pharynx (throat) would be cut (i.e. killed) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me during Hajjat-al-Wida`: Let the people keep quiet and listen. Then he said (addressing the people), "Do not (become infidels) revert to disbelief after me by striking the necks (cutting the throats) of one another (killing each other) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu at-Tufail:The above mentioned Statement of `Ali (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I used to get the emotional urethral discharge frequently so I requested Al-Miqdad to ask the Prophet (ﷺ) about it. Al-Miqdad asked him and he replied, "One has to perform ablution (after it)." (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:My uncle asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about a person who imagined to have passed wind during the prayer. Allah' Apostle replied: "He should not leave his prayers unless he hears sound or smells something (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, he used to say, "Allah-umma inni a`udhu bika minal khubuthi wal khaba'ith i.e. O Allah, I seek Refuge with You from all offensive and wicked things (evil deeds and evil spirits) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) entered a lavatory and I placed water for his ablution. He asked, "Who placed it?" He was informed accordingly and so he said, "O Allah! Make him (Ibn `Abbas) a learned scholar in religion (Islam) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you goes to an open space for answering the call of nature he should neither face nor turn his back towards the Qibla; he should either face the east or the west (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to his wives, "You are allowed to go out to answer the call of nature (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I went up to the roof of Hafsa's house for some job and I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) answering the call of nature facing Sham (Syria, Jordan, Palestine and Lebanon regarded as one country) with his back towards the Qibla. (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Once I went up the roof of our house and saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) answering the call of nature while sitting over two bricks facing Baitul-Maqdis (Jerusalem). (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I along with another boy used to accompany him with a tumbler full of water. (Hisham commented, "So that he might wash his private parts with it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I along with another boy from us used to go behind him with a tumbler full of water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I along with another boy used to carry a tumbler full of water (for cleaning the private parts) and a short spear (or stick) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you drinks water, he should not breathe in the drinking utensil, and whenever anyone of you goes to a lavatory, he should neither touch his penis nor clean his private parts with his right hand (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you makes water he should not hold his penis or clean his private parts with his right hand. (And while drinking) one should not breathe in the drinking utensil (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution by washing the body parts only once (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed ablution by washing the body parts twice (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever performs ablution should clean his nose with water by putting the water in it and then blowing it out, and whoever cleans his private parts with stones should do it with odd number of stones (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muhammad Ibn Ziyad:I heard Abu Huraira saying as he passed by us while the people were performing ablution from a utensil containing water, "Perform ablution perfectly and thoroughly for Abul-Qasim (the Prophet) said, 'Save your heels from the Hell-fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um-`Atiya:That the Prophet (ﷺ) at the time of washing his deceased daughter had said to them, "Start from the right side beginning with those parts which are washed in ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like to start from the right side on wearing shoes, combing his hair and cleaning or washing himself and on doing anything else (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Seereen:I said to `Abida, "I have some of the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) which I got from Anas or from his family." `Abida replied. "No doubt if I had a single hair of that it would have been dearer to me than the whole world and whatever is in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got his head shaved, Abu- Talha was the first to take some of his hair (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a dog drinks from the utensil of anyone of you it is essential to wash it seven times (from eng-bukhari.txt)
And narrated Hamza bin 'Abdullah:My father said. "During the lifetime of Allah's Apostle, the dogs used to urinate, and pass through the mosques (come and go), nevertheless they never used to sprinkle water on it (urine of the dog) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:My uncle said: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One should not leave his prayer unless he hears sound or smells something (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I used to get emotional urethral discharges frequently and felt shy to ask Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it. So I requested Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad to ask (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) about it. Al-Miqdad asked him and he replied, "One has to perform ablution (after it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Musa said:The Prophet asked for a tumbler containing water and washed both his hands and face in it and then threw a mouthful of water in the tumbler and said to both of us (Abu Musa and Bilal), "Drink from the tumbler and pour some of its water on your faces and chests (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:"During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) men and women used to perform ablution together (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a tumbler containing water. He washed his hands and face in it and also threw a mouthful of water in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to take a bath with one Sa` up to five Mudds (1 Sa` = [??] Mudds) of water and used to perform ablution with one Mudd of water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya Ad-Damri:My father said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) passing wet hands over his Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr:My father said, "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) passing wet hands over his turban and Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ate a piece of cooked mutton from the shoulder region and prayed without repeating ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya:My father said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) taking a piece of (cooked) mutton from the shoulder region and then he was called for prayer. He put his knife down and prayed without repeating ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) ate (a piece of) mutton from the shoulder region and then prayed without repeating the ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) drank milk, rinsed his mouth and said, "It has fat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you feels drowsy while praying he should go to bed (sleep) till his slumber is over because in praying while drowsy one does not know whether one is asking for forgiveness or for a bad thing for oneself (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you feels drowsy while praying, he should sleep till he understands what he is saying (reciting) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin `Amir:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform ablution for every prayer." I asked Anas, "What did you used to do?' Anas replied, "We used to pray with the same ablution until we break it with Hadath (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to answer the call of nature, I used to bring water with which he used to clean his private parts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a Bedouin making water in the mosque and told the people not to disturb him. When he finished, the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for some water and poured it over (the urine) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said as above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of faithful believers) A child was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and it urinated on the garment of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for water and poured it over the soiled place (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the dumps of some people and passed urine while standing. He then asked for water and so I brought it to him and he performed ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa':The Prophet (ﷺ) and I walked till we reached the dumps of some people. He stood, as any one of you stands, behind a wall and urinated. I went away, but he beckoned me to come. So I approached him and stood near his back till he finished (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I used to wash the traces of Janaba (semen) from the clothes of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to go for prayers while traces of water were still on it (water spots were still visible) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sulaiman bin Yasar:I asked `Aisha about the clothes soiled with semen. She replied, "I used to wash it off the clothes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he would go for the prayer while water spots were still visible (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:I heard Sulaiman bin Yasar talking about the clothes soiled with semen. He said that `Aisha had said, "I used to wash it off the clothes of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he would go for the prayers while water spots were still visible on them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aishah:I used to wash the semen off the clothes of the Prophet (ﷺ) and even then I used to notice one or more spots on them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Prior to the construction of the mosque, the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the prayers at sheep-folds (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked regarding ghee (cooking butter) in which a mouse had fallen. He said, "Take out the mouse and throw away the ghee around it and use the rest (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked regarding ghee in which a mouse had fallen. He said, "Take out the mouse and throw away the ghee around it (and use the rest) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A wound which a Muslim receives in Allah's cause will appear on the Day of Resurrection as it was at the time of infliction; blood will be flowing from the wound and its color will be that of the blood but will smell like musk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (people to come in the world) but (will be) the foremost (on the Day of Resurrection) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
The same narrator said that the Prophet (ﷺ) had said: "You should not pass urine in stagnant water which is not flowing then (you may need to) wash in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once spat in his clothes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "All drinks that produce intoxication are Haram (forbidden to drink) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Burda:My father said, "I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and saw him carrying a Siwak in his hand and cleansing his teeth, saying, 'U' U'," as if he was retching while the Siwak was in his mouth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) got up at night, he used to clean his mouth with Siwak (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I dreamt that I was cleaning my teeth with a Siwak and two persons came to me. One of them was older than the other and I gave the Siwak to the younger. I was told that I should give it to the older and so I did (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot called 'Faraq (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Salama:`Aisha's brother and I went to `Aisha and he asked her about the bath of the Prophet. She brought a pot containing about a Sa` of water and took a bath and poured it over her head and at that time there was a screen between her and us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) and Maimuna used to take a bath from a single pot (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "As for me, I pour water three times on my head." And he pointed with both his hands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pour water three times on his head (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot of water and our hands used to go in the pot after each other in turn (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took a bath of Janaba, he washed his hands first (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from a single pot of water after Janaba (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) and one of his wives used to take a bath from a single pot of water. (Shu`ba added to Anas' Statement "After the Janaba) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I used to get emotional urethral discharge frequently. Being the son-in-law of the Prophet (ﷺ) I requested a man to ask him about it. So the man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about it. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Perform ablution after washing your organ (penis) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:It is as if I am just looking at the glitter of scent in the parting of the Prophet's head hair while he was a Muhrim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Whenever any one of us was Junub, she poured water over her head thrice with both her hands and then rubbed the right side of her head with one hand and rubbed the left side of the head with the other hand (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Hani bint Abi Talib:I went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of the conquest of Mecca and found him taking a bath while Fatima was screening him. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Who is it?" I replied, "I am Um-Hani (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to visit all his wives in one night and he had nine wives at that time (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Salama:I asked `Aisha "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to sleep while he was Junub?" She replied, "Yes, but he used to perform ablution (before going to bed) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) "Can any one of us sleep while he is Junub?" He replied, "Yes, if he performs ablution, he can sleep while he is Junub (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) intended to sleep while he was Junub, he used to wash his private parts and perform ablution like that for the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:`Umar asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "Can anyone of us sleep while he is Junub?" He replied, "Yes, if he performs ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "I became Junub at night." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "Perform ablution after washing your private parts and then sleep (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham:as the following Hadith 290. Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a man sits in between the four parts of a woman and did the sexual intercourse with her, bath becomes compulsory (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:While in menses, I used to comb the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to lean on my lap and recite Qur'an while I was in menses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Salama:While I was laying with the Prophet (ﷺ) under a single woolen sheet, I got the menses. I slipped away and put on the clothes for menses. He said, "Have you got "Nifas" (menses)?" I replied, "Yes." He then called me and made me lie with him under the same sheet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:When ever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wanted to fondle any of his wives during the periods (menses), he used to ask her to wear an Izar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:"One of the wives of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) joined him in I`tikaf and she noticed blood and yellowish discharge (from her private parts) and put a dish under her when she prayed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:One of the mothers of the faithful believers (i.e. the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) ) did I`tikaf while she was having bleeding in between her periods (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:None of us had more than a single garment and we used to have our menses while wearing it. Whenever it got soiled with blood of menses we used to apply saliva to the blood spot and rub off the blood with our nails (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Salama:While I was lying with the Prophet (ﷺ) under a woolen sheet, I got my menses. I slipped away and put on the clothes for menses. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Have you got your menses?" I replied, "Yes." He called me and I slept with him under the woolen sheet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um `Atiya:We never considered yellowish discharge as a thing of importance (as menses) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) I told Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that Safiya bint Huyai had got her menses. He said, "She will probably delay us. Did she perform Tawaf (Al-Ifada) with you?" We replied, "Yes." On that the Prophet (ﷺ) told her to depart (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Give up the prayer when your menses begin and when it has finished, wash the blood off your body (take a bath) and start praying (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Samura bin Jundub:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for the dead body of a woman who died during delivery (i.e. childbirth) and he stood by the middle of her body (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:(the wife of the Prophet) During my menses, I never prayed, but used to sit on the mat beside the mosque of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He used to offer the prayer on his sheet and in prostration some of his clothes used to touch me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abza:that while he was in the company of `Umar, `Ammar said to `Umar, "We were in a detachment and became Junub and I blew the dust off my hands (performed the rolling over the earth and prayed) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abza:`Ammar said to `Umar "I rolled myself in the dust and came to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said, 'Passing dusted hands over the face and the backs of the hands is sufficient for you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ammar:As above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ammar:The Prophet (ﷺ) stroked the earth with his hands and then passed them over his face and the backs of his hands (while demonstrating Tayammum) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin Al Munkadir:I saw Jabir bin `Abdullah praying in a single garment and he said that he had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) praying in a single garment (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in one garment and crossed its ends (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering prayers in a single garment in the house of Um-Salama and he had crossed its ends around his shoulders (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Abi Salama:In the house of Um-Salama I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offering prayers, wrapped in a single garment around his body with its ends crossed round his shoulders (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the offering of the prayer in a single garment. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) replied, "Has every one of you got two garments? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should offer prayer in a single garment that does not cover the shoulders (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever prays in a single garment must cross its ends (over the shoulders) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:The men used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) with their Izars tied around their necks as boys used to do; therefore the Prophet (ﷺ) told the women not to raise their heads till the men sat down straight (while praying) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Fajr prayer and some believing women covered with their veiling sheets used to attend the Fajr prayer with him and then they would return to their homes unrecognized (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:The Prophet (ﷺ) was given a silken Farruj [??] as a present. He wore it while praying. When he had finished his prayer, he took it off violently as if with a strong aversion to it and said, "It is not the dress of Allah-fearing pious people (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray on Khumra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah Apostle prayed while I was lying like a dead body on his family bed between him and his Qibla (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Urwa:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed while `Aisha was lying between him and his Qibla on the bed on which they used to sleep (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and some of us used to place the ends of their clothes at the place of prostration because of scorching heat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Maslama:Sa`id bin Yazid Al-Azdi: I asked Anas bin Malik whether the Prophet (ﷺ) had ever, prayed with his shoes on. He replied "Yes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu'ba: I helped the Prophet (ﷺ) in performing ablution and he passed his wet hands over his Khuffs and prayed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Malik: Ibn Buhaina, "When the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed, he used to separate his arms from his body so widely that the whiteness of his armpits was visible (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever prays like us and faces our Qibla and eats our slaughtered animals is a Muslim and is under Allah's and His Apostle's protection. So do not betray Allah by betraying those who are in His protection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered the Ka`ba, he invoked Allah in each and every side of it and did not pray till he came out of it, and offered a two-rak`at prayer facing the Ka`ba and said, "This is the Qibla (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray (optional, non-obligatory prayer) while riding on his mount (Rahila) wherever it turned, and whenever he wanted to pray the compulsory prayer he dismounted and prayed facing the Qibla (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:"Once the Prophet (ﷺ) offered five rak`at in Zuhr prayer. He was asked, "Is there an increase in the prayer?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "And what is it?" They said, "You have prayed five rak`at.' So he bent his legs and performed two prostrations (of Sahu) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of faithful believers) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw some nasal secretions, expectoration or sputum on the wall of the mosque in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should spit in front or on his right but he could spit either on his left or under his foot (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A faithful believer while in prayer is speaking in private to his Lord, so he should neither spit in front of him nor to his right side but he could spit either on his left or under his foot (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw sputum on (the wall of) the mosque in the direction of the Qibla and scraped it off with gravel. Then he forbade Spitting in front or on the right, but allowed it on one's left or under one's left foot (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Spitting in the mosque is a sin and its expiation is to bury it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do you consider or see that my face is towards the Qibla? By Allah, neither your submissiveness nor your bowing is hidden from me, surely I see you from my back (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in a prayer and then got up on the pulpit and said, "In your prayer and bowing, I certainly see you from my back as I see you (while looking at you) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:I found the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque along with some people. He said to me, "Did Abu Talha send you?" I said, "Yes". He said, "For a meal?" I said, "Yes." Then he said to his companions, "Get up." They set out and I was ahead of them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Itban bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to my house and said, "Where do you like me to pray?" I pointed to a place. The Prophet then said, "Allahu Akbar", and we aligned behind him and he offered a two-rak`at prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to start every thing from the right (for good things) whenever it was possible in all his affairs; for example: in washing, combing or wearing shoes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Al-Taiyah [??]:Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the sheep fold." Later on I heard him saying, "He prayed in the sheep folds before the construction of the, mosque (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:"I saw Ibn `Umar praying while taking his camel as a Sutra in front of him and he said, "I saw the Prophet doing the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:The sun eclipsed and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the eclipse prayer and said, "I have been shown the Hellfire (now) and I never saw a worse and horrible sight than the sight I have seen today (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) had said, "Offer some of your prayers (Nawafil) at home, and do not take your houses as graves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah's curse be on the Jews for they built the places of worship at the graves of their Prophets (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar said: I used to sleep in the mosque of the Prophet (ﷺ) while I was young and unmarried (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque (the sub-narrator Mas`ar thought that Jabir had said, "In the forenoon.") He ordered me to pray two rak`at. He owed me some money and he repaid it to me and gave more than what was due to me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada Al-Aslami:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you enters a mosque, he should pray two rak`at before sitting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The angels keep on asking Allah's forgiveness for anyone of you, as long as he is at his Musalla (praying place) and he does not pass wind (Hadath). They say, 'O Allah! Forgive him, O Allah! be Merciful to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent someone to a woman telling her to "Order her slave, carpenter, to prepare a wooden pulpit for him to sit on (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:A woman said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall I get something constructed for you to sit on as I have a slave who is a carpenter?" He replied, "Yes, if you like." So she had that pulpit constructed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr:I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, "A man passed through the mosque carrying arrows. Allah's Apostle said to him, 'Hold them by their heads (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Burda bin `Abdullah:(on the authority of his father) The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever passes through our mosques or markets with arrows should hold them by their heads lest he should injure a Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hassan bin Thabit Al-Ansari:I asked Abu Huraira "By Allah! Tell me the truth whether you heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'O Hassan! Reply on behalf of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). O Allah! Help him with the Holy Spirit." Abu Huraira said, "Yes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the verses of Surat "Al-Baqara"' about the usury Riba were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the mosque and recited them in front of the people and then banned the trade of alcohol (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Rafi: Abu Huraira said, "A man or a woman used to clean the mosque." (A sub-narrator said, 'Most probably a woman..') Then he narrated the Hadith of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Salama:I complained to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was sick. He told me to perform the Tawaf behind the people while riding. So I did so and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was praying beside the Ka`ba and reciting the Sura starting with "Wat-tur wa kitabin mastur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent some horse men to Najd and they brought a man called Thumama bin Uthal from Bani Hanifa. They fastened him to one of the pillars of the mosque (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:that his uncle said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lying flat (on his back) in the mosque with one leg on the other." Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab that `Umar and `Uthman used to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar or Ibn `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar or Ibn `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O `Abdullah bin `Amr! What will be your condition when you will be left with the sediments of (worst) people?" (They will be in conflict with each other) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A faithful believer to a faithful believer is like the bricks of a wall, enforcing each other." While (saying that) the Prophet (ﷺ) clasped his hands, by interlacing his fingers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
The narrated Hadith is about the various places on the way from Medina to Mecca where the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed and is not translated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See translation for hadith 484 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See translation for hadith 484 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See translation for hadith 484 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See translation for hadith 484 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See translation for hadith 484 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See translation for hadith 484 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See translation for hadith 484 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See translation for hadith 484 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl (bin Sa`d):The distance between the Musalla of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the wall was just sufficient for a sheep to pass through (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama:The distance between the wall of the mosque and the pulpit was hardly enough for a sheep to pass through (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to get a Harba planted in front of him (as a Sutra) and pray behind it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:I saw the most famous people amongst the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) hurrying towards the pillars at the Maghrib prayer before the Prophet (ﷺ) came for the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray while I was sleeping across in his bed in front of him. Whenever he wanted to pray witr, he would wake me up and I would pray witr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to get up at night and pray while I used to lie across between him and the Qibla on his family's bed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna bint Al-Harith:My bed was beside the praying place (Musalla) of the Prophet (ﷺ) and sometimes his garment fell on me while I used to lie in my bed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray while I used to sleep beside him during my periods (menses) and in prostration his garment used to touch me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:It is not good that you people have made us (women) equal to dogs and donkeys. No doubt I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) praying while I used to lie between him and the Qibla and when he wanted to prostrate, he pushed my legs and I withdrew them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:I gave the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for to offer prayers perfectly, to pay Zakat regularly, and to give good advice to every Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ghailan: Anas said, "I do not find (now-a-days) things as they were (practiced) at the time of the Prophet." Somebody said "The prayer (is as it was.)" Anas said, "Have you not done in the prayer what you have done? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do the prostration properly and do not put your forearms flat with elbows touching the ground like a dog. And if you want to spit, do not spit in front, nor to the right for the person in prayer is speaking in private to his Lord (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira and `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If it is very hot, then pray the Zuhr prayer when it becomes (a bit) cooler, as the severity of the heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira and `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If it is very hot, then pray the Zuhr prayer when it becomes (a bit) cooler, as the severity of the heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Pray Zuhr prayer when it becomes (a bit) cooler as the severity of heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:When we offered the Zuhr prayers behind Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) we used to prostrate on our clothes to protect ourselves from the heat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed eight rak`at for the Zuhr and `Asr, and seven for the Maghrib and `Isha prayers in Medina." Aiyub said, "Perhaps those were rainy nights." Anas said, "May be (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the `Asr prayer when the sunshine had not disappeared from my chamber (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the `Asr prayers at a time when the sunshine was still inside my chamber and no shadow had yet appeared in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray the `Asr prayers at a time when the sunshine was still inside my chamber and no shadow had yet appeared in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to pray the `Asr prayer and after that if someone happened to go to the tribe of Bani `Amr bin `Auf, he would find them still praying the `Asr (prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to pray the `Asr and after that if one of US went to Quba' he would arrive there while the sun was still high (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever misses the `Asr prayer (intentionally) then it is as if he lost his family and property (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Al-Mahh [??]:We were with Buraida in a battle on a cloudy day and he said, "Offer the `Asr prayer early as the Prophet said, "Whoever leaves the `Asr prayer, all his (good) deeds will be annulled (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you can get one rak`a of the `Asr prayer before sunset, he should complete his prayer. If any of you can get one rak`a of the Fajr prayer before sunrise, he should complete his prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij:We used to offer the Maghrib prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and after finishing the prayer one of us may go away and could still see as Par as the spots where one's arrow might reach when shot by a bow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama:We used to pray the Maghrib prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) when the sun disappeared from the horizon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed seven rak`at together and eight rak`at together (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah Al-Muzani:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not be influenced by bedouins regarding the name of your Maghrib prayer which is called `Isha' by them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Barza:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disliked to sleep before the `Isha' prayer and to talk after it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakr bin Abi Musa:My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever prays the two cool prayers (`Asr and Fajr) will go to Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I used to take the "Suhur" meal with my family and hasten so as to catch the Fajr (morning prayer) with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The believing women covered with their veiling sheets used to attend the Fajr prayer with Allah's Apostle, and after finishing the prayer they would return to their home and nobody could recognize them because of darkness (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever could get one rak`a (of the Fajr prayer) before sunrise, he has got the (morning) prayer and whoever could get one rak`a of the `Asr prayer before sunset, he has got the (`Asr) prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever could get one rak`a of a prayer, (in its proper time) he has got the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:"The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade praying after the Fajr prayer till the sun rises and after the `Asr prayer till the sun sets." Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Some people told me the same narration (as above) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should try to pray at sunrise or sunset (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is no prayer after the morning prayer till the sun rises, and there is no prayer after the `Asr prayer till the sun sets (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muawiya:You offer a prayer which I did not see being offered by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when we were in his company and he certainly had forbidden it (i.e. two rak`at after the `Asr prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the offering of two prayers: -1. after the morning prayer till the sunrises. -2. after the `Asr prayer till the sun sets (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I pray as I saw my companions praying. I do not forbid praying at any time during the day or night except at sunset and sunrise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham's father:`Aisha (addressing me) said, "O son of my sister! The Prophet (ﷺ) never missed two prostrations (i.e. rak`at) after the `Asr prayer in my house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never missed two rak`at before the Fajr prayer and after the `Asr prayer openly and secretly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) come to me after the `Asr prayer, he always prayed two rak`at (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abu Malih [??]:I was with Buraida on a cloudy day and he said, "Offer the `Asr prayer earlier as the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever leaves the `Asr prayer will have all his (good) deeds annulled." (See Hadith No. 527 and) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone forgets a prayer he should pray that prayer when he remembers it. There is no expiation except to pray the same." Then he recited: "Establish prayer for My (i.e. Allah's) remembrance (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Bilal was ordered to repeat the wording of the Adhan for prayers twice, and to pronounce the wording of the Iqama once except "Qad-qamat-is-salat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qilaba:Anas said, "Bilal was ordered to pronounce the wording of Adhan twice and of Iqama once only." The sub narrator Isma`il said, "I mentioned that to Aiyub and he added (to that), "Except Iqama (i.e. Qadqamat- is-salat which should be said twice) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever you hear the Adhan, say what the Mu'adh-dhin is saying (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Isa bin Talha:that he had heard Muawiya repeating the words of Adhan up to "Wa ash-hadu anna Muhammadan rasulul-lah (and I testify that Muhammad is Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hafsa:When the Mu'adh-dhin pronounced the Adhan for Fajr prayer and the dawn became evident the Prophet ordered a two rak`at light prayer (Sunna) before the Iqama of the compulsory (congregational) prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer two light rak`at between the Adhan and the Iqama of the Fajr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night, so keep on eating and drinking (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night, so eat and drink (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night, so eat and drink (Suhur) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said thrice, "There is a prayer between the two Adhans (Adhan and Iqama)," and added, "For the one who wants to pray (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray two light rak`at before the morning (compulsory) prayer after the day dawned and the Mu'adh-dhin had finished his Adhan. He then would lie on his right side till the Mu'adh-dhin came to pronounce the Iqama (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:The prophet said, "There is a prayer between the two Adhans (Adhan and Iqama), there is a prayer between the two Adhans." And then while saying it the third time he added, "For the one who wants to (pray) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Malik bin Huwairith:Two men came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with the intention of a journey. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When (both of) you set out, pronounce Adhan and then Iqama and the oldest of you should lead the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aun bin Abi Juhaifa:My father said, "I saw Bilal turning his face from side to side while pronouncing the Adhan for the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you hear the Iqama, proceed to offer the prayer with calmness and solemnity and do not make haste. And pray whatever you are able to pray and complete whatever you have missed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said. "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the Iqama is pronounced then do not stand for the prayer till you see me (in front of you) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada: My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If the Iqama is pronounced, then do not stand for the prayer till you see me (in front of you) and do it calmly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Once the Iqama was pronounced and the Prophet (ﷺ) was talking to a man (in a low voice) in a corner of the mosque and he did not lead the prayer till (some of) the people had slept (dozed in a sitting posture) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once Iqama was pronounced a man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and detained him (from the prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The prayer in congregation is twenty seven times superior to the prayer offered by person alone (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The prayer in congregation is twenty five times superior to the prayer offered by person alone (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The reward of the congregational prayer is twenty seven times greater (than that of the prayer offered by a person alone) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Malik bin Huwairith:Prophet said (to two persons), "Whenever the prayer time becomes due, you should pronounce Adhan and then Iqama and the older of you should lead the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will prepare for him who goes to the mosque (every) morning and in the afternoon (for the congregational prayer) an honorable place in Paradise with good hospitality for (what he has done) every morning and afternoon goings (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Once on a very cold and stormy night, Ibn `Umar pronounced the Adhan for the prayer and then said, "Pray in your homes." He (Ibn `Umar) added. "On very cold and rainy nights Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to order the Mu'adh-dhin to say, 'Pray in your homes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If supper is served, and Iqama is pronounced one should start with the supper (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If the supper is served start having it before praying the Maghrib prayer and do not be hasty in finishing it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you is having his meals, he should not hurry up till he is; satisfied even if the prayer has been started (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ja`far bin `Amr bin Umaiya:My father said, "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating a piece of meat from the shoulder of a sheep and he was called for the prayer. He stood up, put down the knife and prayed but did not perform ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Aswad:That he asked `Aisha "What did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to do in his house?" She replied, "He used to keep himself busy serving his family and when it was the time for prayer he would go for it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:(and he was not a liar) When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah" none of us bent his back (for prostration) till the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated and then we would prostrate after him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't he who raises his head before the Imam afraid that Allah may transform his head into that of a donkey or his figure (face) into that of a donkey? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the earliest emigrants came to Al-`Usba [??] a place in Quba', before the arrival of the Prophet- Salim, the slave of Abu Hudhaifa, who knew the Qur'an more than the others used to lead them in prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Listen and obey (your chief) even if an Ethiopian whose head is like a raisin were made your chief (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If the Imam leads the prayer correctly then he and you will receive the rewards but if he makes a mistake (in the prayer) then you will receive the reward for the prayer and the sin will be his (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Abu-Dhar, "Listen and obey (your chief) even if he is an Ethiopian with a head like a raisin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once I passed the night in the house of my aunt Maimuna. The Prophet (ﷺ) stood for the night prayer and I joined him and stood on his left side but he drew me to his right by holding me by the head (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mu`adh bin Jabal:I used to pray the `Isha prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go to lead my people in the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you leads the people in the prayer, he should shorten it for amongst them are the weak, the sick and the old; and if anyone among your prays alone then he may prolong (the prayer) as much as he wishes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray a short prayer (in congregation) but used to offer it in a perfect manner (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'When I stand for prayer, I intend to prolong it but on hearing the cries of a child, I cut it short, as I dislike to trouble the child's mother (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:I never prayed behind any Imam a prayer lighter and more perfect than that behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to cut short the prayer whenever he heard the cries of a child lest he should put the child's mother to trial (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When I start the prayer I intend to prolong it, but on hearing the cries of a child, I cut short the prayer because I know that the cries of the child will incite its mother's passions (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet, said, "Whenever I start the prayer I intend to prolong it, but on hearing the cries of a child, I cut short the prayer because I know that the cries of the child will incite its mother's passions (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Mu`adh used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then go and lead his people (tribe) in the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed two rak`at of Zuhr prayer (instead of four) and he was told that he had prayed two rak`at only. Then he prayed two more rak`at and finished them with the Taslim followed by two prostrations (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated An-Nu`man bin 'Bashir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows or Allah will alter your faces (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows, for I see you from behind my back (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once the Iqama was pronounced and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) faced us and said, "Straighten your rows and stand closer together, for I see you from behind my back (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows as the straightening of rows is essential for a perfect and correct prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:I arrived at Medina and was asked whether I found any change since the days of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). I said, "I have not found any change except that you do not stand in alignment in your prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Straighten your rows for I see you from behind my back." Anas added, "Everyone of us used to put his shoulder with the shoulder of his companion and his foot with the foot of his companion (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:One night an orphan and I offered the prayers behind the Prophet (ﷺ) in my house and my mother (Um Sulaim) was standing behind us (by herself forming a row) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:One night I stood to the left of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the prayer but he caught hold of me by the hand or by the shoulder (arm) till he made me stand on his right and beckoned with his hand (for me) to go from behind (him). (Al-Kashmaihani [??] , Fath-ul-Bari (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) had a mat which he used to spread during the day and use as a curtain at night. So a number of people gathered at night facing it and prayed behind him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Imam is to be followed. Say the Takbir when he says it; bow if he bows; if he says 'Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah', say, ' Rabbana wa laka l-hamd', prostrate if he prostrates and pray sitting altogether if he prays sitting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qilaba:I saw Malik bin Huwairith saying Takbir and raising both his hands (on starting the prayers and raising his hands on bowing and also on raising his head after bowing. Malik bin Huwairith said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The people were ordered to place the right hand on the left forearm in the prayer. Abu Hazim said, "I knew that the order was from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You see me facing the Qibla; but, by Allah, nothing is hidden from me regarding your bowing and submissiveness and I see you from behind my back (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perform the bowing and the prostrations properly. By Allah, I see you from behind me (or from behind my back) when you bow or prostrate (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar used to start the prayer with "Al hamdu li l-lahi Rabbi l-`alamin (All praise is but to Allah, Lord of the Worlds) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Ma`mar:We asked Khabbab whether Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to recite (the Qur'an) in the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers. He replied in the affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know about it?" He said, "By the movement of his beard (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:(And Al-Bara was not a liar) Whenever we offered prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he raised his head from the bowing, we used to remain standing till we saw him prostrating (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about looking hither and thither in prayer. He replied, "It is a way of stealing by which Satan takes away (a portion) from the prayer of a person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed on a Khamisa with marks on it and said, "The marks on it diverted my attention, take this Khamisa to Abu Jahm and bring an Inbijaniya (from him) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not recite Al-Fatiha in his prayer, his prayer is invalid (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Ma`mar:I asked Khabbab whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an in the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers. He replied in the affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know that?" He said, "From the movement of his beard (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Ma`mar:I asked Khabbab bin Al-Art whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an in the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers. He replied in the affirmative. I said, "How did you come to know that?" He replied, "From the movement of his beard (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha along with another Sura in the first two rak`at of the Zuhr and the `Asr prayers and at times a verse or so was audible to us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(My mother) Umu-l-Fadl heard me reciting "Wal Mursalati `Urfan" (77) and said, "O my son! By Allah, your recitation made me remember that it was the last Sura I heard from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He recited it in the Maghrib prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakam:Zaid bin Thabit said to me, "Why do you recite very short Suras in the Maghrib prayer while I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting the longer of the two long Suras? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:My father said, "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reciting "at-Tur" (52) in the Maghrib prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Rafi`:I offered the `Isha' prayer behind Abu Huraira and he recited, "Idha s-samaa'u n-shaqqat" (84) and prostrated. On my inquiring, he said, "I prostrated behind Abul-Qasim (the Prophet) (when he recited that Sura) and I will go on doing it till I meet him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey and recited in one of the first two rak`at of the `Isha' prayer "Wa t-teeni wa z-zaitun (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting wa t-teeni wa z-zaitun" (95) in the `Isha' prayer, and I never heard a sweeter voice or a better way of recitation than that of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited aloud in the prayers in which he was ordered to do so and quietly in the prayers in which he was ordered to do so. "And your Lord is not forgetful." "Verily there was a good example for you in the ways of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Ma`mar:We said to Khabbab "Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to recite in Zuhr and `Asr prayers?" He replied in the affirmative. We said, "How did you come to know about it?" He said, "By the movement of his beard (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Al-Fatiha along with another Sura in the first two rak`at of the Zuhr and `Asr prayers. A verse or so was audible at times and he used to prolong the first rak`a (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to prolong the first rak`a of the Zuhr prayer and shorten the second one and used to do the same in the Fajr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Say Amin" when the Imam says it and if the Amin of any one of you coincides with that of the angels then all his past sins will be forgiven." Ibn Shihab said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to Say "Amin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you says, "Amin" and the angels in the heavens say "Amin" and the former coincides with the latter, all his past sins will be forgiven (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:I reached the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque while he was bowing in prayer and I too bowed before joining the row mentioned it to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said to me, "May Allah increase your love for the good. But do not repeat it again (bowing in that way) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran bin Husain:I offered the prayer with `Ali in Basra and he made us remember the prayer which we used to pray with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). `Ali said Takbir on each rising and bowing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Salama:When Abu Huraira led us in prayer he used to say Takbir on each bowing and rising. On the completion of the prayer he used to say, "My prayer is more similar to the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) than that of anyone of you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ikrima:I saw a person praying at Muqam-Ibrahim (the place of Abraham by the Ka`ba) and he was saying Takbir on every bowing, rising, standing and sitting. I asked Ibn `Abbas (about this prayer). He admonished me saying: "Isn't that the prayer of the Prophet? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ikrima:I prayed behind a Sheikh at Mecca and he said twenty two Takbirs (during the prayer). I told Ibn `Abbas that he (i.e. that Sheikh) was foolish. Ibn `Abbas admonished me and said, "This is the tradition of Abul-Qasim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Wahb:Hudhaifa saw a person who was not performing the bowing and prostration perfectly. He said to him, "You have not prayed and if you should die you would die on a religion other than that of Muhammad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The bowing, the prostration the sitting in between the two prostrations and the standing after the bowing of the Prophet (ﷺ) but not qiyam (standing in the prayer) and qu`ud (sitting in the prayer) used to be approximately equal (in duration) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say in his bowing and prostrations, "Subhanaka l-lahumma Rabbana wa bihamdika; Allahumma ghfir li.' (Exalted [from unbecoming attributes] Are you O Allah our Lord, and by Your praise [do I exalt you]. O Allah! Forgive me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Imam says, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah," you should say, "Allahumma Rabbana laka l-hamd." And if the saying of any one of you coincides with that of the angels, all his past sins will be forgiven (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The qunut [supplication before going down for prostration] used to be recited in the Maghrib and the Fajr prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thabit:Anas used to demonstrate to us the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) and while demonstrating, he used to raise his head from bowing and stand so long that we would say that he had forgotten (the prostration) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara':The bowing, the prostrations, the period of standing after bowing and the interval between the two prostrations of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be equal in duration (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhaina:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer prayer he used to keep arms away (from the body) so that the whiteness of his armpits was visible (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was ordered (by Allah) to prostrate on seven parts and not to tuck up the clothes or hair (while praying). Those parts are: the forehead (along with the tip of nose), both hands, both knees, and (toes of) both feet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We have been ordered to prostrates on seven bones and not to tuck up the clothes or hair (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' bin `Azib:(He was not a liar) We used to pray behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and when he said, "Sami`a l-lahu liman hamidah", none of us would bend his back (to go for prostration) till the Prophet (ﷺ) had placed his, forehead on the ground (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been ordered to prostrate on seven bones i.e. on the forehead along with the tip of the nose and the Prophet (ﷺ) pointed towards his nose, both hands, both knees and the toes of both feet and not to gather the clothes or the hair (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The people used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) tying their Izars around their necks because of their small sizes and the women were directed that they should not raise their heads from the prostrations till the men had sat straight (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was ordered to prostrate on seven bony parts and not to tuck up his clothes or hair (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been ordered to prostrate on seven (bones) and not to tuck up the hair or garment (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara':The time taken by the Prophet (ﷺ) in prostrations, bowing, and the sitting interval between the two prostrations was about the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Be straight in the prostrations and none of you should put his forearms on the ground (in the prostration) like a dog (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Malik bin Huwairith Al-Laithi:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying and in the odd rak`at, he used to sit for a moment before getting up (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Harith:Abu Sa`id led us in the prayer and said the Takbir aloud on arising from the prostration, and on prostrating, on rising again, and on getting up from the second rak`a. Abu Sa`id said, "I saw the Prophet doing the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prostrating in mud and water and saw the mark of mud on his forehead (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Itban bin Malik:We prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to finish our prayer with the Taslim along with him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I used to recognize the completion of the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) by hearing Takbir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Samura bin Jundub:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to face us on completion of the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) delayed the `Isha' prayer until midnight and then came to us. Having prayed he faced us and said, "The people had prayed and slept but you were in the prayer as long as you were waiting for it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:You should not give away a part of your prayer to Satan by thinking that it is necessary to depart (after finishing the prayer) from one's right side only; I have seen the Prophet (ﷺ) often leave from the left side (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:During the holy battle of Khaibar the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever ate from this plant (i.e. garlic) should not enter our mosque (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ata':I heard Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever eats (from) this plant (he meant garlic) should keep away from our mosque." I said, "What does he mean by that?" He replied, "I think he means only raw garlic (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz:A man asked Anas, "What did you hear from the Prophet (ﷺ) about garlic?" He said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever has eaten this plant should neither come near us nor pray with us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ghusl (taking a bath) on Friday is compulsory for every Muslim reaching the age of puberty (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If your women ask permission to go to the mosque at night, allow them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished the Fajr prayer, the women would leave covered in their sheets and were not recognized owing to the darkness (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada Al-Ansari:My father said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever I stand for prayer, I want to prolong it but on hearing the cries of a child, I would shorten it as I dislike to put its mother in trouble (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the house of Um Sulaim; and I, along with an orphan stood behind him while Um Sulaim (stood) behind us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Fajr prayer when it was still dark and the believing women used to return (after finishing their prayer) and nobody could recognize them owing to darkness, or they could not recognize one another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:My father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'If the wife of any one of you asks permission (to go to the mosque) do not forbid her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed in the house of Um Sulaim; and I, along with an orphan stood behind him while Um Sulaim (stood) behind us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Anyone of you attending the Friday (prayers) should take a bath (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "The taking of a bath on Friday is compulsory for every male (Muslim) who has attained the age of puberty (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I had not found it hard for my followers or the people, I would have ordered them to clean their teeth with Siwak for every prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have told you repeatedly to use the Siwak. (The Prophet (ﷺ) put emphasis on the use of the Siwak (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:When the Prophet (p.b.u.h) got up at night (for the night prayer), he used to clean his mouth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the following in the Fajr prayer of Friday, "Alif, Lam, Mim, Tanzil" (Suratas- Sajda #32) and "Hal-ata-ala-l-Insani" (i.e. Surah-Ad-Dahr) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The first Jumua prayer which was offered after a Jumua prayer offered at the mosque of Allah's Apostle took place in the mosque of the tribe of `Abdul Qais at Jawathi in Bahrain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Anyone of you coming for the Jumua prayer should take a bath (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The taking of a bath on Friday is compulsory for every Muslim who has attained the age of puberty (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira through different narrators that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is Allah's right on every Muslim that he should take a bath (at least) once in seven days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Allow women to go to the Mosques at night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Jumua prayer immediately after midday (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to offer the Jumua prayer early and then have an afternoon nap (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the prayer earlier if it was very cold; and if it was very hot he used to delay the prayer, i.e. the Jumua prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu `Abs:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Anyone whose feet are covered with dust in Allah's cause, shall be saved by Allah from the Hell-Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s (p.b.u.h) saying, "If the prayer is started do not run for it but just walk for it calmly and pray whatever you get, and complete whatever is missed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi Qatada on the authority of his father:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Do not stand up (for prayer) unless you see me, and observe calmness and solemnity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Juraij:I heard Nazi' saying, "Ibn `Umar, said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that a man should make another man to get up to sit in his place' ". I said to Nafi`, 'Is it for Jumua prayer only?' He replied, "For Jumua prayer and any other (prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid I:`Uthman bin `Affan introduced the second Adhan on Fridays when the number of the people in the mosque increased. Previously the Adhan on Fridays used to be pronounced only after the Imam had taken his seat (on the pulpit) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stand by a stem of a date-palm tree (while delivering a sermon). When the pulpit was placed for him we heard that stem crying like a pregnant she-camel till the Prophet (ﷺ) got down from the pulpit and placed his hand over it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim:My father said , "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the Khutba on the pulpit and he said, 'Whoever comes for the Jumua prayer should take a bath (before coming) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to deliver the Khutba while standing and then he would sit, then stand again as you do now-a-days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:One day the Prophet (ﷺ) sat on the pulpit and we sat around him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Hummaid As-Sa`idi:One night Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) stood up after the prayer and recited "Tashah-hud" and then praised Allah as He deserved and said, "Amma ba'du (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up for delivering the Khutba and I heard him after "Tashah-hud" saying "Amma ba'du (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver two Khutbas and sit in between them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A person entered the mosque while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Have you prayed?" The man replied in the negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Get up and pray two rak`at (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:A man entered the Mosque while the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Have you prayed?" The man replied in the negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Pray two rak`at (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the Khutba on a Friday, a man stood up and said, "O, Allah's Apostle! The livestock and the sheep are dying, so pray to Allah for rain." So he (the Prophet) raised both his hands and invoked Allah (for it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "When the Imam is delivering the Khutba, and you ask your companion to keep quiet and listen, then no doubt you have done an evil act (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:As above with the addition: We never had an afternoon nap nor meals except after offering the Jumua prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:We used to offer the Jumua prayer early and then have the afternoon nap (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:We used to offer the Jumua prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and then take the afternoon nap (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never proceeded (for the prayer) on the Day of `Id-ul-Fitr unless he had eaten some dates. Anas also narrated: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to eat odd number of dates (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the prayer of `Id-ul-Adha and `Id-ul-Fitr and then deliver the Khutba after the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I offered the `Id prayer with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman and all of them offered the prayer before delivering the Khutba (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), Abu Bakr and `Umar! used to offer the two `Id prayers before delivering the Khutba (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered a two rak`at prayer on the Day of Id ul Fitr and he did not pray before or after it. Then he went towards women along with Bilal and ordered them to pay alms and so they started giving their earrings and necklaces (in charity) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar: On the day of `Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Adha a spear used to be planted in front of the Prophet (as a Sutra for the prayer) and then he would pray (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to proceed to the Musalla and an 'Anaza used to be carried before him and planted in the Musalla in front of him and he would pray facing it (as a Sutra) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I (in my boyhood) went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of `Id ul Fitr or Id-ul-Adha. The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed and then delivered the Khutba and then went towards the women, preached and advised them and ordered them to give alms (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to Nahr or slaughter sacrifices at the Musalla (on `Id-ul-Adha) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the Day of `Id the Prophet (ﷺ) used to return (after offering the `Id prayer) through a way different from that by which he went (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out and offered a two rak`at prayer on the Day of `Id ul Fitr and did not offer any other prayer before or after it and at that time Bilal was accompanying him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Nafi` told that `Abdullah bin `Umar used to say Taslim between (the first) two Rak`at and (the third) odd one in the Witr prayer, when he wanted to attend to a certain matter (during that interval between the Rak`at) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered witr prayer at different nights at various hours extending (from the `Isha' prayer) up to the last hour of the night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `A'isha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer his night prayer while I was sleeping across in his bed. Whenever he intended to offer the witr prayer, he used to wake me up and I would offer the witr prayer too (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Make witr as your last prayer at night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer (Nawafil) prayers on his Rahila (mount) facing its direction by signals, but not the compulsory prayer. He also used to pray witr on his (mount) Rahila (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen:Anas was asked, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) recite Qunut in the Fajr prayer?" Anas replied in the affirmative. He was further asked, "Did he recite Qunut before bowing?" Anas replied, "He recited Qunut after bowing for some time (for one month) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Qunut for one month (in the Fajr prayer) asking Allah to punish the tribes of Ral and Dhakwan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Qunut used to be recited in the Maghrib and the Fajr prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim's uncle:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) went out to offer the Istisqa' prayer and turned (and put on) his cloak inside out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) turned his cloak inside out on Istisqa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) went towards the Musalla and invoked Allah for rain. He faced the Qibla and wore his cloak inside out, and offered two rak`at (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:I p man complained to the Prophet (ﷺ) about the destruction of livestock and property and the hunger of the offspring. So he invoked (Allah for rain. The narrator (Anas) did not mention that the Prophet (ﷺ) had worn his cloak inside out or faced the Qibla (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim:from his uncle who said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to invoke Allah for rain. He faced the Qibla invoking Allah. He turned over his cloak (inside out) and then offered two rak`at and recited the Qur'an aloud in them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim from his uncle who said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) invoked Allah for rain and offered a two rak`at prayer and he put his cloak inside out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid Al-Ansari:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out towards the Musalla in order to offer the Istisqa' prayer and when he intended to invoke (Allah) or started invoking, he faced the Qibla and turned his cloak inside out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
The narrator Anas added that the Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hands (during the invocation) to such an extent that the whiteness of his armpits was visible (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw the rain, he used to say, "O Allah! Let it be a strong fruitful rain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Whenever a strong wind blew, anxiety appeared on the face of the Prophet (fearing that wind might be a sign of Allah's wrath) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I was granted victory with As-Saba and the nation of 'Ad was destroyed by Ad- Dabur (westerly wind) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of the death of someone from the people but they are two signs amongst the signs of Allah. When you see them stand up and pray (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of the death or life (i.e. birth) of someone but they are two signs amongst the signs of Allah. When you see them offer the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:"When the sun eclipsed in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) an announcement was made that a prayer was to be offered in congregation (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: "The sun and the moon are two signs amongst the signs of Allah and they do not eclipse because of the death of someone but Allah frightens His devotees with them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma:No doubt the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered people to manumit slaves during the solar eclipse (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of someone's death or life but they are two signs amongst the signs of Allah, so pray whenever you see them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
And this was narrated by Asma' who said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished the eclipse prayer and by then the sun (eclipse) had cleared. Then he delivered the Khutba (religious talk) and praised Allah as He deserved and then said Amma ba'du (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) the sun eclipsed and then he offered a two rak`at prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us and performed four bowing in two rak`at during the solar eclipse and the first rak`a was longer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:On Fridays the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Alif Lam Mim Tanzil-As-Sajda (in the first rak`a) and Hal ata `alal-insani i.e. Surat ad-Dahr (LXXVI) (in the second rak`a), in the Fajr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The prostration of Sa`d is not a compulsory one but I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrating while reciting it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) I prostrated while reciting An-Najm and with him prostrated the Muslims, the pagans, the jinns, and all human beings (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ata' bin Yasar:I asked Zaid bin Thabit about prostration on which he said that he had recited An-Najm before the Prophet, yet he (the Prophet) had not performed a prostration (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:I recited An-Najm before the Prophet, yet he did not perform a prostration (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Salma:I saw Abu Huraira reciting Idha-Sama' un-Shaqqat and he prostrated during its recitation. I asked Abu Huraira, "Didn't I see you prostrating?" Abu Huraira said, "Had I not seen the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrating, I would not have prostrated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) recited a Sura that contained the prostration he would prostrate and we would do the same and some of us (because of the heavy rush) could not find a place for prostration (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat As-Sajda and we were with him, he would prostrate and we also would prostrate with him and some of us (because of the heavy rush) would not find a place (for our foreheads) to prostrate on (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Rafi`:I offered the `Isha' prayer behind Abu Huraira and he recited Idhas-Sama' Un-Shaqqat, and prostrated. I said, "What is this?" Abu Huraira said, "I prostrated behind Abul-Qasim and I will do the same till I meet him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar.:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) recited the Sura which contained the prostration of recitation he used to prostrate and then, we, too, would prostrate and some of us did not find a place for prostration (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once stayed for nineteen days and prayed shortened prayers. So when we travel led (and stayed) for nineteen days, we used to shorten the prayer but if we traveled (and stayed) for a longer period we used to offer the full prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Yahya bin 'Is-haq:I heard Anas saying, "We traveled with the Prophet (ﷺ) from Medina to Mecca and offered two rak`at (for every prayer) till we returned to Medina." I said, "Did you stay for a while in Mecca?" He replied, "We stayed in Mecca for ten days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I offered the prayer with the Prophet, Abu Bakr and `Umar at Mina and it was of two rak`at. `Uthman in the early days of his caliphate did the same, but later on he started praying the full prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Haritha bin Wahab:The Prophet (ﷺ) I led us in the prayer at Mina during the peace period by offering two rak`at (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not travel for more than three days except with a Dhi-Mahram (i.e. a male with whom she cannot marry at all, e.g. her brother, father, grandfather, etc.) or her own husband (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not travel for more than three days except with a Dhi-Mahram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to travel for one day and night except with a Mahram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:offered four rak`at of Zuhr prayer with the Prophet (p.b.u.h) at Medina and two rak`at at Dhul-Hulaifa. (i.e. shortened the `Asr prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin 'Amir from his father who said:I saw the Prophet (p.b.u.h) offering the prayer on his mount (Rahila) whatever direction it took (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Nawafil, while riding, facing a direction other than that of the Qibla (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar (while on a journey) used to offer the prayer and the witr on his mount (Rahila). He said that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:On traveling, `Abdullah bin `Umar used to offer the prayer on his Mount by signs whatever direction it took. `Abdullah said that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Amir bin Rabi`a:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) on his Mount praying Nawafil by nodding his head, whatever direction he faced, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never did the same in offering the compulsory prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray (the Nawafil) on his Mount facing east and whenever he wanted to offer the compulsory prayer, he used to dismount and face the Qibla (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hafs bin `Asim:Ibn `Umar went on a journey and said, "I accompanied the Prophet (ﷺ) and he did not offer optional prayers during the journey, and Allah says: 'Verily! In Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) you have a good example to follow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I accompanied Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he never offered more than two rak`at during the journey. Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman used to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Amir that his father had told him that he had seen the Prophet (p.b.u.h) praying Nawafil at night on the back of his Mount on a journey, facing whatever direction it took (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:Ibn `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray the Nawafil on the back of his Mount (carriage) by signs facing any direction." Ibn `Umar used to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together whenever he was in a hurry on a journey (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the Zuhr and `Asr prayers together on journeys, and also used to offer the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together. Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer the Maghrib and the `Isha' prayers together on journeys (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer these two prayers together on journeys i.e. the Maghrib and the `Isha (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) started a journey before noon, he used to delay the Zuhr prayer till the time of `Asr and then offer them together; and if the sun declined (at noon) he used to offer the Zuhr prayer and then ride (for the journey) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran bin Husain:had piles, so I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the prayer. He said, "Pray while standing and if you can't, pray while sitting and if you cannot do even that, then pray Lying on your side (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jundab:The Prophet (ﷺ) became sick and did not get up (for Tahajjud prayer) for a night or two (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to give up a good deed, although he loved to do it, for fear that people might act on it and it might be made compulsory for them. The Prophet (ﷺ) never prayed the Duha prayer, but I offer it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to stand (in the prayer) or pray till both his feet or legs swelled. He was asked why (he offered such an unbearable prayer) and he said, "should I not be a thankful slave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Masruq:I asked `Aisha which deed was most loved by the Prophet. She said, "A deed done continuously." I further asked, "When did he used to get up (in the night for the prayer)." She said, "He used to get up on hearing the crowing of a cock (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:In my house he (Prophet (p.b.u.h) ) never passed the last hours of the night but sleeping (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu-Wail:`Abdullah said, "One night I offered the Tahajjud prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he kept on standing till an ill-thought came to me." We said, "What was the ill-thought?" He said, "It was to sit down and leave the Prophet (standing) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) got up for Tahajjud prayer he used to clean his mouth (and teeth) with Siwak (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:A man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! How is the prayer of the night?" He said, "Two rak`at followed by two rak`at and so on, and when you apprehend the approaching dawn, offer one rak`a as witr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be of thirteen rak`at, i.e. of the night prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Masruq:I asked Aisha about the night prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and she said, "It was seven, nine or eleven rak`at besides the two rak`at of the Fajr prayer (i.e. Sunna) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to offer thirteen rak`at of the night prayer and that included the witr and two rak`at (Sunna) of the Fajr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Samura bin Jundab:The Prophet (ﷺ) said in his narration of a dream that he saw, "He whose head was being crushed with a stone was one who learnt the Qur'an but never acted on it, and slept ignoring the compulsory prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:A person was mentioned before the Prophet (p.b.u.h) and he was told that he had kept on sleeping till morning and had not got up for the prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Satan urinated in his ears (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I did not see the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting (the Qur'an) in the night prayer while sitting except when he became old; when he used to recite while sitting, and when thirty or forty verses remained from the Sura, he would get up and recite them and then bow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "O `Abdullah! Do not be like so and so who used to pray at night and then stopped the night prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha;:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the `Isha' prayer (and then got up at the Tahajjud time) and offered eight rak`at and then offered two rak`at while sitting. He then offered two rak`at in between the Adhan and Iqama (of the Fajr prayer) and he never missed them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to lie down on his right side, after offering two rak`at (Sunna) of the Fajr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:After offering the Sunna of the Fajr prayer, the Prophet (ﷺ) used to talk to me, if I happen to be awake; otherwise he would lie down till the Iqama call was proclaimed (for the Fajr prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:After offering the two rak`at (Sunna) the Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to talk to me, if I happen to be awake; otherwise he would lie down (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) was never more regular and particular in offering any Nawafil than the two rak`at (Sunna) of the Fajr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer thirteen rak`at in the night prayer and on hearing the Adhan for the morning prayer, he used to offer two light rak`at (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) used to make the two rak`at before the Fajr prayer so light that I would wonder whether he recited Al-Fatiha (or not) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada bin Rabi Al-Ansari;:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you enters a Mosque, he should not sit until he has offered a tworak` at prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us and offered a two rak`at prayer and then went away (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar Abu:I offered with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a two rak`at prayer before the Zuhr prayer and two rak`at after the Zuhr prayer, two rak`at after Jumua, Maghrib and `Isha' prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:While delivering a sermon, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you comes while the Imam is delivering the sermon or has come out for it, he should offer a two rak`at prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering the Duha prayer but I always offer it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:My friend (the Prophet) advised me to do three things and I shall not leave them till I die, these are: To fast three days every month, to offer the Duha prayer, and to offer witr before sleeping (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) never missed four rak`at before the Zuhr prayer and two rak`at before the Fajr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah Al-Muzni:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Pray before the Maghrib (compulsory) prayer." He (said it thrice) and in the third time, he said, "Whoever wants to offer it can do so." He said so because he did not like the people to take it as a tradition (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Offer some of your prayers in your houses and do not make them graves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Quza'a: I heard Abu Said saying four words. He said, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) (saying the following narrative)." He had participated in twelve holy battles with the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not set out on a journey except for three Mosques i.e. Al-Masjid-AI-Haram, the Mosque of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , and the Mosque of Al-Aqsa, (Mosque of Jerusalem) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "One prayer in my Mosque is better than one thousand prayers in any other mosque excepting Al-Masjid-AI-Haram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to the Mosque of Quba every Saturday (sometimes) walking and (sometimes) riding." `Abdullah (Ibn `Umar) used to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to the Mosque of Quba (sometimes) walking and sometimes riding. Added Nafi` (in another narration), "He then would offer two rak`at (in the Mosque of Quba) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid Al-Mazini:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and the pulpit there is a garden of the gardens of Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and my pulpit there is a garden of the gardens of Paradise, and my pulpit is on my fountain tank (i.e. Al-Kauthar) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam:In the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to speak while praying, and one of us would tell his needs to his companions, till the verse, 'Guard strictly your prayers (2.238) was revealed. After that we were ordered to remain silent while praying (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The saying 'Sub Han Allah' is for men and clapping is for women." (If something happens in the prayer, the men can invite the attention of the Imam by saying "Sub Han Allah". And women, by clapping their hands) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The saying 'Sub Han Allah' is for men and clapping is for women (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mu'aiqib:The Prophet (ﷺ) talked about a man leveling the earth on prostrating, and said, "If you have to do so, then do it once (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) in scorching heat, and if someone of us could not put his face on the earth (because of the heat) then he would spread his clothes and prostrate over them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:I used to stretch my legs towards the Qibla of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was praying; whenever he prostrated he touched me, and I would withdraw my legs, and whenever he stood up, I would restretch my legs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you is in prayer, he is speaking in private to his Lord and so he should neither spit in front of him nor on his right side but to his left side under his left foot (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The people used to offer the prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) with their waist-sheets tied round their necks because of the shortness of the sheets and the women were ordered not to lift their heads till the men had sat straight (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:It was forbidden to keep the hands on the hips during the prayer. (This is narrated by Abu Huraira from the Prophet) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:It was forbidden to pray with the hands over one's hips (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got up after the second rak`a of the Zuhr prayer without sitting in between (the second and the third rak`at). When he finished the prayer he performed two prostrations (of Sahu) and then finished the prayer with Taslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you stands for the prayers, Satan comes and puts him in doubts till he forgets how many rak`at he has prayed. So if this happens to anyone of you, he should perform two prostrations of Sahu while sitting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma':I went to `Aisha and she was standing praying and the people, too, were standing (praying). So I said, "What is the matter with the people?" She beckoned with her head towards the sky. I said, "(Is there) a sign?" She nodded intending to say, "Yes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anyone who dies worshipping others along with Allah will definitely enter the Fire." I said, "Anyone who dies worshipping none along with Allah will definitely enter Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The rights of a Muslim on the Muslims are five: to respond to the salaam, visiting the sick, to follow the funeral processions, to accept an invitation, and to reply to those who sneeze. (see Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed (the people) about the death of An-Najashi on the very day he died. He went towards the Musalla (praying place) and the people stood behind him in rows. He said four Takbirs (i.e. offered the Funeral prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim whose three children die before the age of puberty will be granted Paradise by Allah due to his mercy for them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No Muslim whose three children died will go to the Fire except for Allah's oath (i.e. everyone has to pass over the bridge above the lake of fire) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a woman who was sitting and weeping beside a grave and said to her, "Fear Allah and be patient (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um 'Atiyya:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , concerning his (dead) daughter's bath, said, "Start with the right side, and the parts which are washed in ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um 'Atiyya:When we washed the deceased daughter of the Prophet, he said to us, while we were washing her, "Start the bath from the right side and from the parts which are washed in ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hafsa bint Seereen:Um 'Atiyya said that they had entwined the hair of the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in three braids. They first undid her hair, washed and then entwined it in three braids (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um 'Atiyya:We entwined the hair of the dead daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) into three braids. Waki said that Sufyan said, "One braid was entwined in front and the other two were entwined on the sides of the head (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three Yemenite white Suhuliya (pieces of cloth) of cotton, and in them there was neither a shirt nor a turban (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to (the grave of) `Abdullah bin Ubai after his body was buried. The body was brought out and then the Prophet (ﷺ) put his saliva over the body and clothed it in his shirt (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth which were made of Suhul (a type of cotton), and neither a shirt nor a turban were used (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth and neither a shirt nor a turban were used (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was shrouded in three pieces of cloth which were made of white Suhul and neither a shirt nor a turban were used (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um 'Atiyya:We were forbidden to accompany funeral processions but not strictly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen:One of the sons of Um 'Atiyya died, and when it was the third day she asked for a yellow perfume and put it over her body, and said, "We were forbidden to mourn for more than three days except for our husbands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by (the grave of) a Jewess whose relatives were weeping over her. He said, "They are weeping over her and she is being tortured in her grave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Burda:That his father said, "When `Umar was stabbed, Suhaib started crying: O my brother! `Umar said, 'Don't you know that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: The deceased is tortured for the weeping of the living'? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar from his father: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The deceased is tortured in his grave for the wailing done over him." Narrated Shu'ba: The deceased is tortured for the wailing of the living ones over him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps his cheeks, tears his clothes and follows the ways and traditions of the Days of Ignorance is not one of us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps the cheeks, tears the clothes and follows the tradition of the Days of Ignorance is not from us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who slaps the cheeks, tears the clothes and follows the traditions of the Days of Ignorance is not from us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:When the reciters of Qur'an were martyred, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited Qunut for one month and I never saw him (i.e. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)) so sad as he was on that day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The real patience is at the first stroke of a calamity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Amir bin Rabi`a:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever you see a funeral procession, stand up till the procession goes ahead of you." Al-Humaidi added, "Till the coffin leaves you behind or is put down (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Amir bin Rabi`a:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If any one of you see a funeral procession and he is not going along with it, then he should stand and remain standing till he gets behind it, or it leaves him behind, or the coffin is put down before it goes ahead of him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you see a funeral procession, you should stand up, and whoever accompanies it should not sit till the coffin is put down (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A funeral procession passed in front of us and the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and we too stood up. We said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! This is the funeral procession of a Jew." He said, "Whenever you see a funeral procession, you should stand up (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Hurry up with the dead body for if it was righteous, you are forwarding it to welfare; and if it was otherwise, then you are putting off an evil thing down your necks (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for An-Najashi and I was in the second or third row (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) informed his companions about the death of An-Najashi and then he went ahead (to lead the prayer) and the people lined up behind him in rows and he said four Takbir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ash-Shaibani:Ash Shu`bi said, "I was informed by a man who had seen the Prophet (ﷺ) going to a grave that was separate from the other graves and he aligned the people in rows and said four Takbir." I said, "O Abu `Amr! who narrated (that) to you"? He said, "Ibn `Abbas (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Amir:Ibn `Abbas (who was at that time a boy) said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to a grave and the people said, 'He or she was buried yesterday.' " Ibn `Abbas added, "We aligned behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and he led the funeral prayer of the deceased (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Jew brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) a man and a woman from amongst them who have committed (adultery) illegal sexual intercourse. He ordered both of them to be stoned (to death), near the place of offering the funeral prayers beside the mosque (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Samura bin Jundab:I offered the funeral prayer behind the Prophet (ﷺ) for a woman who had died during childbirth and he stood up by the middle of the coffin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Samura bin Jundab:I offered the funeral prayer behind the Prophet (ﷺ) for a woman who had died during childbirth and he stood up by the middle of the coffin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed about the news of the death of An-Najash on the day he died. He went out with us to the Musalla and we aligned in rows and he said four Takbirs for An-Najashi's funeral prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer of As-Hama An-Najash and said four Takbir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Talha bin `Abdullah bin `Auf:I offered the funeral prayer behind Ibn `Abbas and he recited Al-Fatiha and said, "You should know that it (i.e. recitation of Al-Fatiha) is the tradition of the Prophet (ﷺ) Muhammad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) buried every two martyrs in of Uhud in one grave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bury them (i.e. martyrs) with their blood." (that was) On the day of the Battle of Uhud. He did not get them washed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:A man was buried along with my father and I did not like it till I took him (i.e. my father) out and buried him in a separate grave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:My mother and I were among the weak and oppressed. I from among the children, and my mother from among the women (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira-:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who commits suicide by throttling shall keep on throttling himself in the Hell Fire (forever) and he who commits suicide by stabbing himself shall keep on stabbing himself in the Hell-Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They now realize that what I used to tell them was the truth. "And Allah said, 'Verily! You cannot make the dead to hear (i.e. benefit them, and similarly the disbelievers) nor can you make the deaf hear (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma' bint Abi Bakr:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) once stood up delivering a sermon and mentioned the trial which people will face in the grave. When he mentioned that, the Muslims started shouting loudly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abi Aiyub:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) went out after sunset and heard a dreadful voice, and said, "The Jews are being punished in their graves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Musa bin `Uqba:(From the daughter of Khalid bin Sa id bin Al-`Asi) who said that she had heard the Prophet (ﷺ) seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment in the grave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "Any Muslim whose three children died before the age of puberty will be granted Paradise by Allah because of His mercy to them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara':When Ibrahim (the son of Prophet) expired, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a wet-nurse for him in Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) was asked about the children of (Mushrikeen) pagans. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Since Allah created them, He knows what sort of deeds they would have done (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the offspring of pagans (Mushrikeen); so he said, "Allah knows what sort of deeds they would have done (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every child is born with a true faith of Islam (i.e. to worship none but Allah Alone) and his parents convert him to Judaism or Christianity or Magianism, as an animal delivers a perfect baby animal. Do you find it mutilated? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:A man said to the Prophet (p.b.u.h), "My mother died suddenly and I thought that if she had lived she would have given alms. So, if I give alms now on her behalf, will she get the reward?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the affirmative (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Don't abuse the dead, because they have reached the result of what they forwarded (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas.:Abu Lahab, may Allah curse him, once said to the Prophet (p.b.u.h), "Perish you all the day." Then the Divine Inspiration came: "Perish the hands of Abi Lahab! And perish he (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:I gave the pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) for offering prayer perfectly, giving Zakat, and giving good advice to every Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) said, "No Zakat is due on property mounting to less than five Uqiyas (of silver), and no Zakat is due on less than five camels, and there is no Zakat on less than five Wasqs." (A Wasqs equals 60 Sa's) & (1 Sa=3 K gms App) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour (Day of Judgment) will not be established till your wealth increases so much so that one will be worried, for no one will accept his Zakat and the person to whom he will give it will reply, 'I am not in need of it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying:"Save yourself from Hell-fire even by giving half a date-fruit in charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "The best charity is that which is practiced by a wealthy person. And start giving first to your dependents (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr:that she had gone to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said, "Do not shut your money bag; otherwise Allah too will withhold His blessings from you. Spend (in Allah's Cause) as much as you can afford (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "An honest Muslim storekeeper who carries out the orders of his master and pays fully what he has been ordered to give with a good heart and pays to that person to whom he was ordered to pay, is regarded as one of the two charitable persons (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a woman gives in charity from her husband's house ..." (See next hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every day two angels come down from Heaven and one of them says, 'O Allah! Compensate every person who spends in Your Cause,' and the other (angel) says, 'O Allah! Destroy every miser (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See previous hadith (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Abu Bakr wrote to me what Allah had ordered His Apostle (about Zakat) which goes: Neither an old nor a defected animal, nor a male-goat may be taken as Zakat except if the Zakat collector wishes (to take it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No Zakat is imposed on less than five Awsuq of dates; no Zakat is imposed on less than five Awaq of silver, and no Zakat is imposed on less than five camels (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no Zakat either on a horse or a slave belonging to a Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no Zakat either on a slave or on a horse belonging to a Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The poor person is not the one who asks a morsel or two (of meals) from the others, but the poor is the one who has nothing and is ashamed to beg from others (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, it is better for a person to take a rope and proceed in the morning to the mountains and cut the wood and then sell it, and eat from this income and give alms from it than to ask others for something (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no Zakat on less than five Awsuq (of dates), or on less than five camels, or on less than five Awaq of silver (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the sale of dates till they were good (ripe), and when it was asked what it meant, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Till there is no danger of blight (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the sale of fruits till they were ripe (free from blight) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of fruits until they were ripe. The Prophet (p.b.u.h) added, "It means that they become red (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Al-Hasan bin `Ali took a date from the dates given in charity and put it in his mouth. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Expel it from your mouth. Don't you know that we do not eat a thing which is given in charity? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Some meat was presented to the Prophet (p.b.u.h) and it had been given to Barira (the freed slave-girl of Aisha) in charity. He said, "This meat is a thing of charity for Barira but it is a gift for us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no compensation for one killed or wounded by an animal or by falling in a well, or because of working in mines; but Khumus is compulsory on Rikaz (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Humaid Al-Sa`idi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) appointed a man called Ibn Al-Lutbiya, from the tribe of Al-Asd to collect Zakat from Bani Sulaim. When he returned, (after collecting the Zakat) the Prophet (ﷺ) checked the account with him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made it incumbent on all the slave or free Muslims, male or female, to pay one Sa' of dates or barley as Zakat-ul-Fitr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:We used to give one Sa' of barley as Sadaqat-ul-Fitr (per head) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:We used to give one Sa' of meal or one Sa' of barley or one Sa' of dates, or one Sa' of cottage cheese or one Sa' of Raisins (dried grapes) as Zakat-ul-Fitr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered (Muslims) to give one Sa' of dates or one Sa' of barley as Zakat-ul-Fitr. The people rewarded two Mudds of wheat as equal to that (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered the people to pay Zakat-ul-Fitr before going to the `Id prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:In the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , we used to give one Sa' of food (edible things) as Sadaqat-ul-Fitr (to the poor). Our food used to be either of barley, raisins (dried grapes), cottage cheese or dates (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has made Sadaqat-ul-Fitr obligatory, (and it was), either one Sa' of barley or one Sa' of dates (and its payment was obligatory) on young and old people, and on free men as well as on slaves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I saw that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to ride on his Mount at Dhul Hulaifa and used to start saying, "Labbaik" when the Mount stood upright (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) started saying, "Labbaik" from Dhul-Hulaifa when his Mount stood upright carrying him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent my brother, 'Abdur Rahman with me to Tan'im for the 'Umra, and he made me ride on the packsaddle (of a camel). 'Umar said, "Be ready to travel for Hajj as it (Hajj) is one of the two kind of Jihad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thumama bin `Abdullah bin Anas:Anas performed the Hajj on a packsaddle and he was not a miser. Anas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Hajj on a packsaddle and the same Mount was carrying his baggage too (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the mother of the faithful believers) I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We consider Jihad as the best deed." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best Jihad (for women) is Hajj Mabrur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) said, "Whoever performs Hajj for Allah's pleasure and does not have sexual relations with his wife, and does not do evil or sins then he will return (after Hajj free from all sins) as if he were born anew (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim from his father who said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) had fixed the Mawaqit as follows: (No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar' said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made his camel sit (i.e. he dismounted) at Al-Batha' in Dhul-Hulaifa and offered the prayer." `Abdullah bin `Umar used to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:In the valley of Al-`Aqiq I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "To night a messenger came to me from my Lord and asked me to pray in this blessed valley and to assume Ihram for Hajj and `Umra together (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:Ibn `Umar used to oil his hair. I told that to Ibrahim who said, "What do you think about this statement: Narrated Aswad from `Aisha: As if I were now observing the glitter of the scent in the parting of the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was Muhrim? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:Ibn `Umar used to oil his hair. I told that to Ibrahim who said, "What do you think about this statement: Narrated Aswad from `Aisha: As if I were now observing the glitter of the scent in the parting of the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was Muhrim? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet (p.b.u.h) I used to scent Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) when he wanted to assume Ihram and also on finishing Ihram before the Tawaf round the Ka`ba (Tawaf-al-ifada) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim from his father:I heard that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assumed Ihram with his hair matted together (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah:I heard my father saying, "Never did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assume Ihram except at the Mosque, that is, at the Mosque of Dhul-Hulaifa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at in Medina and then two rak`at at Dhul Hulaifa and then passed the night at Dhul-Hulaifa till it was morning and when he mounted his Mount and it stood up, he started to recite Talbiya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qilaba:Anas bin Malik said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of the Zuhr prayer in Medina and two rak`at of `Asr prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa." I think that the Prophet (ﷺ) passed the night there till morning (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered four rak`at of the Zuhr prayer in Medina and two rak`at of the `Asr prayer in Dhul-Hulaifa and I heard them (the companions of the Prophet) reciting Talbiya together loudly to the extent of shouting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I know how the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say (Talbiya) and it was: 'Labbaika Allahumma Labbaik, Labbaika la sharika Laka labbaik, Inna-l-hamda wan-ni'mata Laka walmu Lk, La sharika Laka (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (p.b.u.h) recited Talbiya when he had mounted his Mount and was ready to set out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ata:Jabir said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered `Ali to keep on assuming his Ihram." The narrator then informed about the narration of Suraqa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:came to the Prophet (from Yemen and was assuming Ihram for Hajj) and he ordered me to finish the Ihram (after performing the `Umra) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:We came with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (to Mecca) and we were saying: 'Labbaika Allahumma Labbaik' for Hajj. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered us to perform `Umra with that Ihram (instead of Hajj) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran:We performed Hajj-at-Tamattu` in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and then the Qur'an was revealed (regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu`) and somebody said what he wished (regarding Hajj-at-Tamattu`) according his own opinion (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:On reaching the sanctuary of Mecca, Ibn `Umar used to stop, reciting Talbiya and then he would pass the night at Dhi-Tuwa and then offer the Fajr prayer and take a bath. He used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:' Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) passed the night at Dhi-Tuwa till it was dawn and then he entered Mecca." Ibn `Umar used to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to enter Mecca from the high Thaniya and used to leave Mecca from the low Thaniya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered Mecca from Kada' from the highest Thaniya which is at Al-Batha' and used to leave Mecca from the low Thaniya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Mecca he entered from its higher side and left from its lower side (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha':In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca from Kada' and left Mecca from Kuda, from the higher part of Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham:`Urwa said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca in the year of the conquest of Mecca from the side of Kada' which is at the higher part of Mecca." `Urwa often entered from Kada' which was nearer of the two to his dwelling place (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham from his father:In the year of the conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca from the side of Kada. `Urwa used to enter through both places and he often entered through Kada' which was nearer of the two to his dwelling place (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet;; said, "Dhus-Suwaiqa-tain (literally: One with two lean legs) from Ethiopia will demolish the Ka`ba (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "The people will continue performing the Hajj and `Umra to the Ka`ba even after the appearance of Gog and Magog." Narrated Shu`ba extra: The Hour (Day of Judgment) will not be established till the Hajj (to the Ka`ba) is abandoned (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As if I were looking at him, a black person with thin legs plucking the stones of the Ka`ba one after another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Dhus-Suwaiqatain (the thin legged man) from Ethiopia will demolish the Ka`ba (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abis bin Rabi`a:`Umar came near the Black Stone and kissed it and said "No doubt, I know that you are a stone and can neither benefit anyone nor harm anyone. Had I not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kissing you I would not have kissed you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim that his father said:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) arriving at Mecca; he kissed the Black Stone Corner first while doing Tawaf and did ramal in the first three rounds of the seven rounds (of Tawaf) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) did Ramal in (first) three rounds (of Tawaf), and walked in the remaining four, in Hajj and Umra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas.:In his Last Hajj the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba riding a camel and pointed a bent-headed stick towards the Corner (Black Stone) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim bin `Abdullah that his father said:"I have not seen the Prophet (ﷺ) touching except the two Yemenite Corners (i.e. the ones facing Yemen) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Aslam that his father said:"I saw `Umar bin Al-Khattab kissing the Black Stone and he then said, (to it) 'Had I not seen Allah's Apostle kissing you, (stone) I would not have kissed you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba while riding a camel, and whenever he came in front of the Corner, he pointed towards it (with something) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba riding a camel, and every time he came in front of the Corner (having the Black Stone), he pointed towards it with something he had with him and said Takbir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) performed the Tawaf of the Ka`ba, he did Ramal during the first three rounds and in the last four rounds he used to walk and while doing Tawaf between Safa and Marwa, he used to run in the midst of the rain water passage (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Salama:(the wife of the Prophet) I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was ill. So he said, "Perform the Tawaf while riding behind the people." I did so, and at that time the Prophet (ﷺ) was praying beside the Ka`ba and reciting Surat-at-Tur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba, he passed by a person who had tied his hands to another person with a rope or string or something like that. The Prophet (ﷺ) cut it with his own hands and said, "Lead him by the hand (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man performing Tawaf of the Ka`ba tied with a string or something else. So the Prophet cut that string (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca and performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and Sa`i between Safa and Marwa, but he did not go near the Ka`ba after his Tawaf till he returned from `Arafat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) reached Mecca, circumambulated the Ka`ba seven times and then offered a two rak`at prayer behind Maqam Ibrahim. Then he went towards the Safa. Allah has said, "Verily, in Allah's Apostle you have a good example (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) forbidding the offering of prayers at the time of sunrise and sunset (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Tawaf (of the Ka`ba) riding a camel (at that time the Prophet (ﷺ) had a foot injury). Whenever he came to the Corner (having the Black Stone) he would point out towards it with a thing in his hand and say, "Allahu-Akbar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Salama:I informed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that I was sick. He said, "Perform Tawaf (of the Ka`ba) while riding behind the people." So, I performed the Tawaf while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was offering the prayer beside the Ka`ba and was reciting Surat-at-Tur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Al `Abbas bin `Abdul-Muttalib asked the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to let him stay in Mecca during the nights of Mina in order to provide the pilgrims with water to drink, so the Prophet (ﷺ) permitted him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I gave Zamzam water to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he drank it while standing. `Asim (a sub-narrator) said that `Ikrima took the oath that on that day the Prophet (ﷺ) had not been standing but riding a camel (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed Tawaf of the Ka`ba and the Sa`i of Safa and Marwa so as to show his strength to the pagans (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz:I went out to Mina on the day of Tarwiya and met Anas going on a donkey. I asked him, "Where did the Prophet (ﷺ) offer the Zuhr prayer on this day?" Anas replied, "See where your chiefs pray and pray similarly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered a two-rak`at prayer at Mina. Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman, (during the early years of his caliphate) followed the same practice (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Haritha bin Wahab Al-Khuza`i:The Prophet (ﷺ) led us in a two-rak`at prayer at Mina although our number was more than ever and we were in better security than ever (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:I offered (only a) two rak`at prayer with the Prophet (at Mina), and similarly with Abu Bakr and with `Umar, and then you d offered in opinions. Wish that I would be lucky enough to have two of the four rak`at accepted (by Allah) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Al-Fadl:The people doubted whether the Prophet (ﷺ) was observing the fast on the Day of `Arafat, so I sent something for him to drink and he drank it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together at Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) with a separate Iqama for each of them and did not offer any optional prayer in between them or after each of them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Aiyub Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together at Al-Muzdalifa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had sent me from Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) at night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I as among those whom the Prophet (ﷺ) sent on the night of Al-Muzdalifa early being among the weak members of his family (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Sauda asked the permission of the Prophet (ﷺ) to leave earlier at the night of Jam', and she was a fat and very slow woman. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave her permission (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering any prayer not at its stated time except two; he prayed the Maghrib and the `Isha' together and he offered the morning prayer before its usual time (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) made Al-Fadl ride behind him, and Al-Fadl informed that he (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) kept on reciting Talbiya till he did the Rami of the Jamra. (Jamrat-Al-`Aqaba) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana. He said, "Ride on it." The man replied, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (again), "Ride on it." He (the man) said, "It is a Badana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said thrice, "Ride on it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Urwa:" 'Aishah informed me about the Hajj and 'Umra (together) of the Prophet (ﷺ) and so did the people who were with him (during the Hajj and 'Umra) and narration similar to the narration of the Ibn 'Umar (previous hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and Marwan:The Prophet (ﷺ) set out from Medina with over one thousand of his companions (at the time of the Treaty of Hudaibiya) and when they reached Dhul-Hulaifa, the Prophet (ﷺ) garlanded his Hadi and marked it and assumed Ihram for `Umra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama and Marwan:The Prophet (ﷺ) set out from Medina with over one thousand of his companions (at the time of the Treaty of Hudaibiya) and when they reached Dhul-Hulaifa, the Prophet (ﷺ) garlanded his Hadi and marked it and assumed Ihram for `Umra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I twisted with my own hands the garlands for the Budn of the Prophet (ﷺ) who garlanded and marked them, and then made them proceed to Mecca; Yet no permissible thing was regarded as illegal for him then (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hafsa:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What is wrong with the people, they have finished their Ihram but you have not?" He said, "I matted my hair and I have garlanded my Hadi, so I will not finish my Ihram till I finished my Hajj (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to send the Hadi from Medina and I used to twist the garlands for his Hadi and he did not keep away from any of these things which a Muhrim keeps away from (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I twisted the garlands for the Hadis of the Prophet (ﷺ) and then he marked and garlanded them (or I garlanded them) and then made them proceed to the Ka`ba but he remained in Medina and no permissible thing was regarded as illegal for him then (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) sent sheep as Hadi (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I used to make the garlands for (the Hadis of) the Prophet (ﷺ) and he would garland the sheep (with them) and would stay with his family as a non-Muhrim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:I used to twist the garlands for the sheep of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he would send them (to the Ka`ba), and stay as a non-Muhrim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I twisted (the garlands) for the Hadis of the Prophet (ﷺ) before he assumed Ihram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I twisted the garlands of the Hadis from the wool which was with me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered me to give in charity the skin and the coverings of the Budn which I had slaughtered (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah (bin `Umar), used to slaughter (his sacrifice) at the Manhar. ('Ubaidullah, a sub-narrator said, "The Manhar of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to send his Hadi from Jam' (to Mina) in the last third of the night with the pilgrims amongst whom there were free men and slaves, till it was taken into the Manhar (slaughtering place) of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Bakkar:The narration of Anas abridged, saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered seven Budn (camels) while standing, with his own hands. On the day of `Id-ul-Adha he slaughtered (sacrificed) two horned rams, black and white in color (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ziyad bin Jubair:I saw Ibn `Umar passing by a man who had made his Badana sit to slaughter it. Ibn `Umar said, "Slaughter it while it is standing with one leg tied up as is the tradition of Muhammad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to supervise the (slaughtering) of Budn (Hadi camel) and to distribute their meat, skins and covering sheets in charity and not to give anything (of their bodies) to the butcher as wages for slaughtering (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered one hundred Budn as Hadi and ordered me to distribute their meat (in charity) and I did so. Then he ordered me to distribute their covering sheets in charity and I did so. Then he ordered me to distribute their skins in charity and I did so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about a person who had his head shaved before slaughtering (his Hadi) (or other similar ceremonies of Hajj). He replied, "There is no harm, there is no harm (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked by a man who said, "I have done the Rami in the evening." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm in it." Another man asked, "I had my head shaved before the slaughtering." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "There is no harm in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (p.b.u.h) (got) his head shaved after performing his Hajj (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) and some of his companions got their heads shaved and some others got their hair cut short (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muawiya:I cut short the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with a long blade (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Mecca, he ordered his Companions to perform Tawaf round the Ka`ba and between Safa and Marwa, to finish their Ihram and get their hair shaved off or cut short (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi' that Ibn 'Umar (ra) performed only one Tawaf. He would take an afternoon nap and then return to Mina. That was on the day of Nahr (slaughtering) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the slaughtering, shaving (of the head), and the doing of Rami before or after the due times. He said, "There is no harm in that (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stopped while on his she-camel (the sub-narrator then narrated the Hadith as above, i.e) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering a sermon at `Arafat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) permitted the people who provided the pilgrims with water to stay at Mecca during the nights of Mina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:That the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed people who provided the pilgrims with water to stay at Mecca during the nights of Mina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Al-Abbas asked the permission from the Prophet (ﷺ) to stay at Mecca during the nights of Mina in order to provide water to the people, so the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Wabra:I asked Ibn `Umar, "When should I do the Rami of the Jimar?" He replied, "When your leader does that." I asked him again the same question. He replied, "We used to wait till the sun declined and then we would do the Rami (i.e. on the 11th and 12th of Dhul-Hijja) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Qasim:I heard my father who was the best man of his age, saying, "I heard `Aisha saying, 'I perfumed Allah's Apostle with my own hands before finishing his Ihram while yet he has not performed Tawaf-al- Ifada.' She spread her hands (while saying so) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The people were ordered to perform the Tawaf of the Ka`ba (Tawaf-al-Wada`) as the lastly thing, before leaving (Mecca), except the menstruating women who were excused (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Zuhr, `Asr, Maghrib and the `Isha' prayers and slept for a while at a place called Al-Muhassab and then rode to the Ka`ba and performed Tawaf round it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Safiya bint Huyay, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) got her menses, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was informed of that. He said, "Would she delay us?" The people said, "She has already performed Tawaf-al-Ifada." He said, "Therefore she will not (delay us) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Zuhr, `Asr, Maghrib and `Isha' prayers and slept for a while at a place called Al-Mahassab and then he rode towards the Ka`ba and performed Tawaf (al-Wada) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:It (i.e. Al-Abtah) was a place where the Prophet (ﷺ) used to camp so that it might be easier for him to depart (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Staying at Al-Mahassab is not one of the ceremonies (of Hajj), but Al-Mahassab is a place where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) camped (during his Hajjat-al-Wida) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi':Whenver Ibn 'Umar (ra) approached (Makkah) he used to pass the night at Dhi-Tuwa till dawn, and then he would enter Makkah. On his return, he used to pass by Dhi-Tuwa and pass the night there till dawn, and he used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(The performance of) `Umra is an expiation for the sins committed (between it and the previous one). And the reward of Hajj Mabrur (the one accepted by Allah) is nothing except Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Urwa bin Az-Zubair:I asked `Aisha (whether the Prophet (ﷺ) had performed `Umra in Rajab). She replied, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never performed any `Umra in Rajab (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas (about the Prophet's `Umra) and he replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) performed `Umra when the pagans made him return, and Umra of al-Hudaibiya (the next year), and another `Umra in Dhi-l-Qa'da, and another `Umra in combination with his Hajj (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin Aus:`Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) had ordered him to let `Aisha ride behind him and to make her perform `Umra from at-Tan`im (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca, some boys of the tribe of Bani `Abdul Muttalib went to receive him, and the Prophet (ﷺ) made one of them ride in front of him and the other behind him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left for Mecca, he used to pray in the mosque of Ash-Shajra, and when he returned (to Medina), he used to pray in the middle of the valley of Dhul-Hulaifa and used to pass the night there till morning (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) never returned to his family from a journey at night. He used to return either in the morning or in the afternoon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade going to one's family at night (on arrival from a journey) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Traveling is a kind of torture as it prevents one from eating, drinking and sleeping properly. So, when one's needs are fulfilled, one should return quickly to one's family (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Some of the sons of `Abdullah told him (i.e. `Abdullah) if he had stayed (and not performed Hajj that year) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was prevented from performing (`Umra) Therefore, he shaved his head and had sexual relations with his wives and slaughtered his Hadi and performed Umra in the following year (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slaughtered (the Hadi) before he had his head shaved and then he ordered his Companions to do the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ka'b bin 'Ujra (ra):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw him (i.e. Ka'b) while the lice were falling on his face (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever performs Hajj to this House (Ka`ba) and does not approach his wife for sexual relations nor commits sins (while performing Hajj), he will come out as sinless as a newlyborn child. (Just delivered by his mother) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever performs Hajj to this Ka`ba and does not approach his wife for sexual relations nor commit sins (while performing Hajj), he will come out as sinless as a newborn child, (just delivered by his mother) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not sinful of a Muhrim to kill five kinds of animals (from eng-bukhari.txt)
One of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) narrated:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muhrim can kill (five kinds of animals) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hafsa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not sinful (of a Muhrim) to kill five kinds of animals, namely: the crow, the kite, the mouse, the scorpion and the rabid dog (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Five kinds of animals are harmful and could be killed in the Haram (Sanctuary). These are: the crow, the kite, the scorpion, the mouse and the rabid dog (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha the wife of the Prophet:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called the salamander a bad animal, but I did not hear him ordering it to be killed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped while he was in a state of Ihram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Buhaina:The Prophet, while in the state of Ihram, was cupped at the middle of his head at Liha-Jamal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) married Maimuna while he was in the state of Ihram, (only the ceremonies of marriage were held) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man was crushed to death by his she-camel and was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Give him a bath and shroud him, but do not cover his head, and do not bring any perfume near to him, as he will be resurrected reciting Talbiya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a sermon at `Arafat and said, "Whoever does not get an Izar can wear trousers, and whoever cannot get a pair of shoes can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) assumed Ihram for Umra in the month of Dhul-Qa'da but the (pagan) people of Mecca refused to admit him into Mecca till he agreed on the condition that he would not bring into Mecca any arms but sheathed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
A man bit the hand of another man but in that process the latter broke one incisor tooth of the former, and the Prophet (ﷺ) forgave the latter (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent me (to Mina) with the luggage from Jam' (i.e. Al-Muzdalifa) at night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:(While in the company of my parents) I was made to perform Hajj with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I was a seven-year-old boy then. (Fath-ul-Bari, p.443, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Ju'aid bin `Abdur-Rahman:I heard `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz telling about As-Sa'ib bin Yazid that he had performed Hajj (while carried) with the belongings of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibrahim's grand-father that 'Umar(ra) in his last Hajj allowed the wives of the Prophet(ﷺ)to perform Hajj and he sent with them 'Uthman bin 'Affan(ra) and 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Auf(ra) as escorts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw an old man walking, supported by his two sons, and asked about him. The people informed him that he had vowed to go on foot (to the Ka`ba). He said, "Allah is not in need of this old man's torturing himself," and ordered him to ride (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:My sister vowed to go on foot to the Ka`ba, and she asked me to take the verdict of the Prophet (ﷺ) about it. So, I did and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "She should walk and also should ride." Narrated Abul-Khair from `Uqba as above.: (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I was ordered to migrate to a town which will swallow (conquer) other towns and is called Yathrib and that is Medina, and it turns out (bad) persons as a furnace removes the impurities of iron (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Humaid:We came with the Prophet (ﷺ) from Tabuk, and when we reached near Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is Tabah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:If I saw deers grazing in Medina, I would not chase them, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(Medina) is a sanctuary between its two mountains (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Verily, Belief returns and goes back to Medina as a snake returns and goes back to its hole (when in danger) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "None plots against the people of Medina but that he will be dissolved (destroyed) like the salt is dissolved in water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The terror caused by Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal will not enter Medina and at that time Medina will have seven gates and there will be two angels at each gate guarding them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There are angels guarding the entrances (or roads) of Medina, neither plague nor Ad-Dajjal will be able to enter it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Bestow on Medina twice the blessings You bestowed on Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) returned from a journey and observed the walls of Medina, he would make his Mount go fast, and if he was on an animal (i.e. a horse), he would make it gallop because of his love for Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is a garden from the gardens of Paradise between my house and my pulpit, and my pulpit is on my Lake Fount (Al-Kauthar) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Aslam from his father:`Umar said, O Allah! Grant me martyrdom in Your cause, and let my death be in the city of Your Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Ramadan begins, the gates of Paradise are opened (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the month of Ramadan starts, the gates of the heaven are opened and the gates of Hell are closed and the devils are chained (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not give up forged speech and evil actions, Allah is not in need of his leaving his food and drink (i.e. Allah will not accept his fasting) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The month (can be) 29 nights (i.e. days), and do not fast till you see the moon, and if the sky is overcast, then complete Sha'ban as thirty days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The month is like this and this," (at the same time he showed the fingers of both his hands thrice) and left out one thumb on the third time (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) or Abul-Qasim said, "Start fasting on seeing the crescent (of Ramadan), and give up fasting on seeing the crescent (of Shawwal), and if the sky is overcast (and you cannot see it), complete thirty days of Sha'ban (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The two months of `Id i.e. Ramadan and Dhul-Hijja, do not decrease (in superiority) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We are an illiterate nation; we neither write, nor know accounts. The month is like this and this, i.e. sometimes of 29 days and sometimes of thirty days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should fast a day or two before the month of Ramadan unless he has the habit of fasting (Nawafil) (and if his fasting coincides with that day) then he can fast that day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Bilal used to pronounce the Adhan at night, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? said, "Carry on taking your meals (eat and drink) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan, for he does not pronounce it till it is dawn (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Bilal used to pronounce the Adhan at night, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? said, "Carry on taking your meals (eat and drink) till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan, for he does not pronounce it till it is dawn (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I used to take my Suhur meals with my family and then hurry up for presenting myself for the (Fajr) prayer with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Zaid bin Thabit said, "We took the Suhur with the Prophet (ﷺ) . Then he stood for the prayer." I asked, "What was the interval between the Suhur and the Adhan?" He replied, "The interval was sufficient to recite fifty verses of the Qur'an (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take Suhur as there is a blessing in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered a person on 'Ashura' (the tenth of Muharram) to announce, "Whoever has eaten, should not eat any more, but fast, and who has not eaten should not eat, but complete his fast (till the end of the day) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha and Um Salama:At times Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to get up in the morning in the state of Janaba after having sexual relations with his wives. He would then take a bath and fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha and Um Salama:At times Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to get up in the morning in the state of Janaba after having sexual relations with his wives. He would then take a bath and fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to kiss and embrace (his wives) while he was fasting, and he had more power to control his desires than any of you. Said Jabir, "The person who gets discharge after casting a look (on his wife) should complete his fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham's father:Aisha said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to kiss some of his wives while he was fasting," and then she smiled (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(At times) in Ramadan the Prophet (ﷺ) used to take a bath in the morning not because of a wet dream and would continue his fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody eats or drinks forgetfully then he should complete his fast, for what he has eaten or drunk, has been given to him by Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped while he was in the state of lhram, and also while he was observing a fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped while he was fasting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thabit Al-Bunani:Anas bin Malik was asked whether they disliked the cupping for a fasting person. He replied in the negative and said, "Only if it causes weakness (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Hamza bin `Amr Al-Aslami said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I fast continuously (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Hamza bin `Amr Al-Aslami asked the Prophet, "Should I fast while traveling?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "You may fast if you wish, and you may not fast if you wish (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out for Mecca in Ramadan and he fasted, and when he reached Al-Kadid, he broke his fast and the people (with him) broke their fast too. (Abu `Abdullah said, "Al-Kadid is a land covered with water between Usfan and Qudaid) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Ad-Darda:We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on one of his journeys on a very hot day, and it was so hot that one had to put his hand over his head because of the severity of heat. None of us was fasting except the Prophet and Ibn Rawaha (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on a journey and saw a crowd of people, and a man was being shaded (by them). He asked, "What is the matter?" They said, "He (the man) is fasting." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is not righteousness that you fast on a journey (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We used to travel with the Prophet (ﷺ) and neither did the fasting persons criticize those who were not fasting, nor did those who were not fasting criticize the fasting ones (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar recited the verse: "They had a choice either to fast or to feed a poor person for every day, and said that the order of this Verse was canceled (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Sometimes I missed some days of Ramadan, but could not fast in lieu of them except in the month of Sha'ban." Said Yahya, a sub-narrator, "She used to be busy serving the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't it true that a woman does not pray and does not fast on menstruating? And that is the defect (a loss) in her religion (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever died and he ought to have fasted (the missed days of Ramadan) then his guardians must fast on his behalf (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When night falls from this side and the day vanishes from this side and the sun sets, then the fasting person should break his fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The people will remain on the right path as long as they hasten the breaking of the fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Wisal. The people said (to him), "But you practice it?" He said, "I am not like you, for I am given food and drink by Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Wisal out of mercy to them. They said to him, "But you practice Al- Wisal?" He said, "I am not similar to you, for my Lord gives me food and drink (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) never fasted a full month except the month of Ramadan, and he used to fast till one could say, "By Allah, he will never stop fasting," and he would abandon fasting till one would say, "By Allah, he will never fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:My friend (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) advised me to observe three things: (1) to fast three days a month; (2) to pray two rak`at of Duha prayer (forenoon prayer); and (3) to pray witr before sleeping (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin `Abbas:I asked Jabir "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) forbid fasting on Fridays?" He replied, "Yes." (Other narrators added, "If he intends to fast only that day) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "None of you should fast on Friday unless he fasts a day before or after it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Alqama:I asked `Aisha "Did Allah s Apostle, use to choose some special days (for fasting)?" She replied, "No, but he used to be regular (constant) (in his service of worshipping). Who amongst you can endure what Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to endure? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:The people doubted whether the Prophet (ﷺ) was fasting on the day of `Arafat or not, so I sent milk while he was standing at `Arafat, he drank it and the people were looking at him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Yahya:Hisham said, "My father said that 'Aishah (ra) used to observe Saum (fast) on the days of Mina." His (i.e., Hisham's) father also used to observe Saum on those days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Umar:Nobody was allowed to fast on the days of Tashriq except those who could not afford the Hadi (Sacrifice) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Umar:Nobody was allowed to fast on the days of Tashriq except those who could not afford the Hadi (Sacrifice) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever wishes may fast on the day of 'Ashura (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered (the Muslims) to fast on the day of 'Ashura', and when fasting in the month of Ramadan was prescribed, it became optional for one to fast on that day ('Ashura') or not (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The day of 'Ashura' was considered as `Id day by the Jews. So the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered, "I recommend you (Muslims) to fast on this day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) seeking to fast on a day that he favored more than another except this day, the day of 'Ashura', and this month, meaning the month of Ramadan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered a man from the tribe of Bani Aslam to announce amongst the people that whoever had eaten should fast the rest of the day, and whoever had not eaten should continue his fast, as that day was the day of 'Ashura (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying regarding Ramadan, "Whoever prayed at night in it (the month of Ramadan) out of sincere Faith and hoping for a reward from Allah, then all his previous sins will be forgiven (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to pray (at night) in Ramadan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Search for the Night of Qadr in the odd nights of the last ten days of Ramadan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Look for (the Night of Qadr) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to practice I`tikaf in the last ten nights of Ramadan and used to say, "Look for the Night of Qadr in the last ten nights of the month of Ramadan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Look for the Night of Qadr in the last ten nights of Ramadan ,' on the night when nine or seven or five nights remain out of the last ten nights of Ramadan (i.e. 21, 23, 25, respectively) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Night of Qadr is in the last ten nights of the month (Ramadan), either on the first nine or in the last (remaining) seven nights (of Ramadan)." Ibn `Abbas added, "Search for it on the twenty-fourth (of Ramadan) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:With the start of the last ten days of Ramadan, the Prophet (ﷺ) used to tighten his waist belt (i.e. work hard) and used to pray all the night, and used to keep his family awake for the prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to practice I`tikaf in the last ten days of the month of Ramadan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) The Prophet (ﷺ) used to practice I`tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan till he died and then his wives used to practice I`tikaf after him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to (put) bend his head (out) to me while he was in I`tikaf in the mosque during my monthly periods and I would comb and oil his hair (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to let his head in (the house) while he was in the mosque and I would comb and oil his hair. When in I`tikaf he used not to enter the house except for a need (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to embrace me during my menses. He also used to put his head out of the mosque while he was in I`tikaf, and I would wash it during my menses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to embrace me during my menses. He also used to put his head out of the mosque while he was in I`tikaf, and I would wash it during my menses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Umar asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "I vowed in the Pre-Islamic period of ignorance to stay in I`tikaf for one night in Al-Masjid al-Haram." The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Fulfill your vow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:One of the wives of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) practiced I`tikaf with him while she ad bleeding in between her periods and she would see red (blood) or yellowish traces, and sometimes we put a tray beneath her when she offered the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I vowed in the Pre-Islamic period to perform I`tikaf in Al-Masjid-al-Haram for one night." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fulfill your vow." So, he performed I`tikaf for one night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:that `Umar had vowed in the Pre-Islamic period to perform I`tikaf in Al-Masjid-al-Haram. (A subnarrator thinks that `Umar vowed to perform I`tikaf for one night.) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to `Umar, "Fulfill your vow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform I`tikaf every year in the month of Ramadan for ten days, and when it was the year of his death, he stayed in I`tikaf for twenty days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Urwa:Aisha during her menses used to comb and oil the hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he used to be in I`tikaf in the mosque. He would stretch out his head towards her while she was in her chamber (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a fallen date and said, "Were it not for my doubt that this might have been given in charity, I would have eaten it." And narrated Abu Huraira the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I found a datefruit fallen on my bed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A time will come when one will not care how one gains one's money, legally or illegally (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Hurairah (ra) said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned a person from Bani Israel who travelled by sea and carried out his needs." Then he narrated the whole story. (See Hadith no) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a woman gives something (i.e. in charity) from her husband's earnings without his permission, she will get half his reward (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "whoever desires an expansion in his sustenance and age, should keep good relations with his Kith and kin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) purchased food grains from a Jew on credit and mortgaged his iron armor to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to practice manual labor, so their sweat used to smell, and they were advised to take a bath (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdam:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody has ever eaten a better meal than that which one has earned by working with one's own hands. The Prophet (ﷺ) of Allah, David used to eat from the earnings of his manual labor (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) David used not to eat except from the earnings of his manual labor (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, it is better for any one of you to cut a bundle of wood and carry it over his back rather than to ask someone who may or may not give him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Az-Zubair bin Al-Awwam:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One would rather take a rope and cut wood and carry it than ask others (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah's mercy be on him who is lenient in his buying, selling, and in demanding back his money (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There was a merchant who used to lend the people, and whenever his debtor was in straitened circumstances, he would say to his employees, 'Forgive him so that Allah may forgive us.' So, Allah forgave him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) said "Certainly a time will come when people will not bother to know from where they earned the money, by lawful means or unlawful means." (See Hadith no) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:When the last Verses of Surat al- Baqara were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) recited them in the mosque and proclaimed the trade of alcohol as illegal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The swearing (by the seller) may persuade the buyer to purchase the goods but that will be deprived of Allah's blessing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) bought food grains from a Jew on credit and mortgaged his armor to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:We set out with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the year of Hunain, (the Prophet (ﷺ) gave me an armor). I sold that armor and bought a garden in the region of the tribe of Bani Salama and that was the first property I got after embracing Islam (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Abu Taiba cupped Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) so he ordered that he be paid one Sa of dates and ordered his masters to reduce his tax (as he was a slave and had to pay a tax to them) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) got his blood out (medically) and paid that person who had done it. If it had been illegal, the Prophet (ﷺ) would not have paid him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Bani Najjar! Suggest a price for your garden." Part of it was a ruin and it contained some date palms (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hakim bin Hizam":The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The buyer and the seller have the option of canceling or confirming the deal unless they separate (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Both the buyer and the seller have the option of canceling or confirming a bargain unless they separate, or the sale is optional." (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No deal is settled and finalized unless the buyer and the seller separate, except if the deal is optional (whereby the validity of the bargain depends on the stipulations agreed upon) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:A person came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and told him that he was always betrayed in purchasing. The Prophet (ﷺ) told him to say at the time of buying, "No cheating (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:A man at Al-Baqi' called, "O Abul-Qasim!" The Prophet (ﷺ) turned to him and the man said (to the Prophet ), "I did not intend to call you." The prophet said, "Name yourselves by my name but not by my Kunya (name) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He who buys foodstuff should not sell it till he is satisfied with the measure with which he has bought it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdam bin Ma'diyakrib:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Measure your foodstuff and you will be blessed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah bestow your blessings on their measures, bless their Mudd and Sa." The Prophet (ﷺ) meant the people of Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim:that his father said. "I saw those, who used to buy foodstuff without measuring or weighing in the life time of the Prophet (ﷺ) being punished if they sold it before carrying it to their own houses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who buys foodstuff should not sell it till he has received it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of foodstuff before receiving it. I consider that all types of sellings should be done similarly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The buyer of foodstuff should not sell it before it has been measured for him." Isma`il narrated instead, "He should not sell it before receiving it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I saw the people buy foodstuff randomly (i.e. blindly without measuring it) in the lifetime of Allah's Apostle and they were punished (by beating), if they tried to sell it before carrying it to their own houses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not urge somebody to return what he has already bought (i.e. in optional sale) from another seller so as to sell him your own goods (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Najsh (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dressing; (one of them) is to sit with one's legs drawn up while wrapped in one garment. (The other) is to lift that garment on one's shoulders. And also forbade two kinds of sale: Al-Limais and An-Nibadh (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade selling by Mulamasa and Munabadha (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dresses and two kinds of sale, i.e., Mulamasa and Munabadha (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever buys a sheep which has been kept unmilked for a long period, and milks it, can keep it if he is satisfied, and if he is not satisfied, he can return it, but he should pay one Sa of dates for the milk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of the goods of a desert dweller by a town person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A buyer should not urge a seller to restore a purchase so as to buy it himself, and do not practice Najsh; and a town dweller should not sell goods of a desert dweller (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We were forbidden that a town dweller should sell goods of a desert dweller (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the meeting (of caravans) on the way and the selling of goods by an inhabitant of the town on behalf of a desert dweller (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Tawus:I asked Ibn `Abbas, "What is the meaning of, 'No town dweller should sell (or buy) for a desert dweller'?" Ibn `Abbas said, "It means he should not become his broker (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Whoever buys an animal which has been kept unmilked for a long time, could return it, but has to pay a Sa of dates along with it. And the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade meeting the owners of goods on the way away from the market (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You should not try to cancel the purchases of one another (to get a benefit thereof), and do not go ahead to meet the caravan (for buying the goods) (but wait) till it reaches the market (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:We used to go ahead to meet the caravan and used to buy foodstuff from them. The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to sell it till it was carried to the market (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Some people used to buy foodstuff at the head of the market and used to sell it on the spot. Allah's Apostle forbade them to sell it till they brought it to (their) places (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana; and Muzabana is the selling of fresh dates for dried old dates by measure, and the selling of fresh grapes for dried grapes by measure (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Don't sell gold for gold unless equal in weight, nor silver for silver unless equal in weight, but you could sell gold for silver or silver for gold as you like (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:(Concerning exchange) that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Do not sell gold for gold unless equal in weight, and do not sell silver unless equal in weight (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Al-Minhal:I asked Al-Bara' bin `Azib and Zaid bin Arqam about money exchanges. Each of them said, "This is better than I," and both of them said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of silver for gold on credit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Al-Minhal:I asked Al-Bara' bin `Azib and Zaid bin Arqam about money exchanges. Each of them said, "This is better than I," and both of them said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling of silver for gold on credit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakra:that his father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of gold for gold and silver for silver except if they are equivalent in weight, and allowed us to sell gold for silver and vice versa as we wished (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana; and Muzabana means the selling of fresh dates (on the trees) for dried dates by measure and also the selling of fresh grapes for dried grapes by measure (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana and Muhaqala; and Muzabana means the selling of ripe dates for dates still on the trees (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana and Muhaqala (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) al lowed the owner of 'Araya to sell the fruits on the trees by means of estimation (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of fruits unless they get ripe, and none of them should be sold except for Dinar or Dirham (i.e. money), except the 'Araya trees (the dates of which could be sold for dates) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed the sale of the dates of 'Araya provided they were about five Awsuq (singular: Wasaq which means sixty Sa's) or less (in amount) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar from Zaid bin Thabit:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) allowed the sale of 'Araya by estimating the dates on them for measured amounts of dried dates. Musa bin `Uqba said, "Al- 'Araya were distinguished date palms; one could come and buy them (i.e. their fruits) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits till their benefit is evident. He forbade both the seller and the buyer (such sale) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of date fruits till they were ripe. Abu `Abdullah (Al-Bukhari) said, "That means till they were red (can be eaten) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the s of (date) fruits till they were red or yellow and fit for eating (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits till their benefit is evident; and the sale of date palms till the dates are almost ripe. He was asked what 'are almost ripe' meant. He replied, "Got red and yellow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) bought some foodstuff from a Jew on credit and mortgaged his armor to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody sells pollinated date palms, the fruits will be for the seller unless the buyer stipulates that they will be for himself (and the seller agrees) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Muzabana, i.e. to sell ungathered dates of one's garden for measured dried dates or fresh ungathered grapes for measured dried grapes; or standing crops for measured quantity of foodstuff. He forbade all such bargains (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever pollinates date palms and then sells them, the fruits will belong to him unless the buyer stipulates that the fruits should belong to him (and the seller agrees) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muhaqala, Mukhadara, Mulamasa, Munabadha and Muzabana. (See glossary and previous Hadiths for the meanings of these terms) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Abu Taiba cupped Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that a Sa of dates be paid to him and ordered his masters (for he was a slave) to reduce his tax (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Hind, the mother of Mu'awiya said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Abu Sufyan (her husband) is a miser. Am I allowed to take from his money secretly?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "You and your sons may take what is sufficient reasonably and fairly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave preemption (to the partner) in every joint property, but if the boundaries of the property were demarcated or the ways and streets were fixed, then there was no pre-emption (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) decided the validity of preemption in every joint undivided property, but if the boundaries were well marked or the ways and streets were fixed, then there was no pre-emption (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by a dead sheep and said to the people, "Wouldn't you benefit by its skin?" The people replied that it was dead. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But its eating only is illegal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once `Umar was informed that a certain man sold alcohol. `Umar said, "May Allah curse him! Doesn't he know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'May Allah curse the Jews, for Allah had forbidden them to eat the fat of animals but they melted it and sold it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "May Allah curse the Jews, because Allah made fat illegal for them but they sold it and ate its price (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the last verses of Surat-al-Baqara were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) went out (of his house to the Mosque) and said, "The trade of alcohol has become illegal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Amongst the captives was Safiya. First she was given to Dihya Al-Kalbi and then to the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) sold a Mudabbar (on behalf of his master who was still living and in need of money) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sold a Mudabbar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade taking the price of a dog, money earned by prostitution and the earnings of a soothsayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) came (to Medina) and he told the people (regarding the payment of money in advance that they should pay it) for a known specified measure and a known specified weight and a known specified period (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin Abi Al-Mujalid:as above (446) and said, "We used to pay them in advance for wheat and barley (to be delivered later). Narrated Ash-Shaibani--"And also for oil." Narrated Ash-Shaibani: who said "We used to pay in advance for wheat barley and dried grapes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) bought some foodstuff (barley) from a Jew on credit and mortgaged his iron armor to him (the armor stands for a guarantor) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-A`mash:We argued at Ibrahim's dwelling place about mortgaging in Salam. He said, "Aisha said, 'The Prophet (ﷺ) bought some foodstuff from a Jew on credit and the payment was to be made by a definite period, and he mortgaged his iron armor to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The people used to sell camels on the basis of Habal-al-Habala. The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade such sale. Nafi` explained Habal-al-Habala by saying. "The camel is to be delivered to the buyer after the she-camel gives birth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave a verdict regarding Shuf'a in every undivided joint thing (property). But if the limits are defined (or demarcated) or the ways and streets are fixed, then there is no pre-emption (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have two neighbors and would like to know to which of them I should give presents." He replied, "To the one whose door is nearer to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The honest treasurer who gives willingly what he is ordered to give, is one of the two charitable persons, (the second being the owner) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) with two men from Ash`ari tribe. I said (to the Prophet), "I do not know that they want employment." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No, we do not appoint for our jobs anybody who demands it earnestly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah did not send any prophet but shepherded sheep." His companions asked him, "Did you do the same?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Yes, I used to shepherd the sheep of the people of Mecca for some Qirats (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:When Abu Taiba cupped the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that he be paid one or two Sas of foodstuff and he interceded with his masters to reduce his taxes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped, he paid the man who cupped him his wages (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped, he paid the man who cupped him his wages. If it had been undesirable he would not have paid him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to get cupped and would never withhold the wages of any person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for a slave who had the profession of cupping, and he cupped him. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that he be paid one or two Sas, or one or two Mudds of foodstuff, and appealed to his masters to reduce his taxes: (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) regarded illegal the price of a dog, the earnings of a prostitute, and the charges taken by a soothsayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited the earnings of slave girls (through prostitution) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade taking a price for animal copulation (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Procrastination (delay) in paying debts by a wealthy man is injustice. So, if your debt is transferred from your debtor to a rich debtor, you should agree (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Procrastination (delay) in paying debts by a wealthy person is injustice. So, if your debt is transferred from your debtor to a rich debtor, you should agree (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:`Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf came to us and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between him and Sa`d bin Rabi`a (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Asim:I heard Anas bin Malik, "Have you ever heard that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'There is no alliance in Islam?' " He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) made alliance between Quraish and the Ansar in my house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered me to distribute the saddles and skins of the Budn which I had slaughtered (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin Amir:that the Prophet (ﷺ) had given him sheep to distribute among his companions and a male kid was left (after the distribution). When he informed the Prophet (ﷺ) of it, he said (to him), "Offer it as a sacrifice on your behalf (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sad: A woman came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I want to give up myself to you." A man said, "Marry her to me." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We agree to marry her to you with what you know of the Qur'an by heart (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid and Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Unais! Go to the wife of this (man) and if she confesses (that she has committed illegal sexual intercourse), then stone her to death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid and Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Unais! Go to the wife of this (man) and if she confesses (that she has committed illegal sexual intercourse), then stone her to death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:When An-Nuaman or his son was brought in a state of drunkenness, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered all those who were present in the house to beat him. I was one of those who beat him. We beat him with shoes and palm-leaf stalks (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "An honest treasurer who gives what he is ordered to give fully, perfectly and willingly to the person to whom he is ordered to give, is regarded as one of the two charitable persons (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is none amongst the Muslims who plants a tree or sows seeds, and then a bird, or a person or an animal eats from it, but is regarded as a charitable gift for him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Umama al-Bahili:I saw some agricultural equipment and said: "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying: "There is no house in which these equipment enters except that Allah will cause humiliation to enter it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) got the date palm trees of the tribe of Bani-An-Nadir burnt and the trees cut down at a place called Al-Buwaira . Hassan bin Thabit said in a poetic verse: "The chiefs of Bani Lu'ai found it easy to watch fire spreading at Al-Buwaira (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) made a deal with the people of Khaibar that they would have half the fruits and vegetation of the land they cultivated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave the land of Khaibar to the Jew's on the condition that they work on it and cultivate it, and be given half of its yield (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Aslam from his father:`Umar said, "But for the future Muslim generations, I would have distributed the land of the villages I conquer among the soldiers as the Prophet (ﷺ) distributed the land of Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who cultivates land that does not belong to anybody is more rightful (to own it)." `Urwa said, "`Umar gave the same verdict in his Caliphate (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in Al-`Aqiq he said, "Someone (meaning Gabriel) came to me from my Lord tonight (in my dream) and said, 'Offer the prayer in this blessed valley and say (I intend to perform) `Umra along with Hajj (together) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim:`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "I knew that the land was rented for cultivation in the lifetime of Allah's Apostle ." Later on Ibn `Umar was afraid that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden it, and he had no knowledge of it, so he gave up renting his land (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not withhold the superfluous water, for that will prevent people from grazing their cattle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not withhold the superfluous water in order to withhold the superfluous grass (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No bloodmoney will be charged if somebody dies in a mine or in a well or is killed by an animal; and if somebody finds a treasure in his land he has to give one-fifth of it to the Government (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my soul is, I will drive some people out from my (sacred) Fount on the Day of Resurrection as strange camels are expelled from a private trough (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Sab bin Jath-thama:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, No Hima except for Allah and His Apostle. We have been told that Allah's Apostle made a place called An-Naqi' as Hima, and `Umar made Ash-Sharaf and Ar-Rabadha Hima (for grazing the animals of Zakat) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Az-Zubair bin Al 'Awwam:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, one had better take a rope (and cut) and tie a bundle of wood and sell it whereby Allah will keep his face away (from Hell-fire) rather than ask others who may give him or not (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, you had better gather a bundle of wood and carry it on your back (and earn your living thereby) rather than ask somebody who may give you or not (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One of the rights of a she camel is that it should be milked at a place of water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:The Prophet (ﷺ) permitted selling the dates of the 'Araya for ready dates by estimating the amount of the former (as they are still on the trees) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the sales called Al-Mukhabara, Al-Muhaqala and Al-Muzabana and the selling of fruits till they are free from blights. He forbade the selling of the fruits except for money, except the 'Araya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed the sale of the dates of the 'Araya for ready dates by estimating the former which should be estimated as less than five Awsuq or five Awsuq. (Dawud, the sub-narrator is not sure as to the right amount) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Rafi` 'bin Khadij and Sahl bin Abi Hathma:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of Muzabana, i.e. selling of fruits for fruits, except in the case of 'Araya; he allowed the owners of 'Araya such kind of sale (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Rafi` 'bin Khadij and Sahl bin Abi Hathma:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of Muzabana, i.e. selling of fruits for fruits, except in the case of 'Araya; he allowed the owners of 'Araya such kind of sale (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-A`mash:When we were with Ibrahim, we talked about mortgaging in deals of Salam. Ibrahim narrated from Aswad that `Aisha had said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) bought some foodstuff on credit from a Jew and mortgaged an iron armor to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes the money of the people with the intention of repaying it, Allah will repay it on his behalf, and whoever takes it in order to spoil it, then Allah will spoil him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I had gold equal to the mountain of Uhud, it would not please me that it should remain with me for more than three days, except an amount which I would keep for repaying debts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was in the Mosque. (Mas`ar thinks, that Jabir went in the forenoon.) After the Prophet (ﷺ) told me to pray two rak`at, he repaid me the debt he owed me and gave me an extra amount (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If someone leaves some property, it will be for the inheritors, and if he leaves some weak offspring, it will be for us to support them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Procrastination (delay) in repaying debts by a wealthy person is injustice (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and demanded his debts and used harsh words. The companions of the Prophet wanted to harm him, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Leave him, as the creditor (owner of the right) has the right to speak (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a man finds his very things with a bankrupt, he has more right to take them back than anyone else (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A man pledged that his slave would be manumitted after his death. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Who will buy the slave from me?" Nu'aim bin `Abdullah bought the slave and the Prophet (ﷺ) took its price and gave it to the owner (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned an Israeli man who asked another Israeli to lend him money, and the latter gave it to him for a fixed period. (Abu Hurairah mentioned the rest of narration) [See chapter: Kafala in loans and debts. Hadith] (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "I am often betrayed in bargaining." The Prophet (ﷺ) advised him, "When you buy something, say (to the seller), 'No deception." The man used to say so afterwards (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:A man was often cheated in buying. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "When you buy something, say (to the seller), No cheating." The man used to say so thenceforward (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:A man manumitted a slave and he had no other property than that, so the Prophet (ﷺ) canceled the manumission (and sold the slave for him). Nu'aim bin Al-Nahham bought the slave from him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, I intended to order somebody to pronounce the Iqama of the (compulsory congregational) prayer and then I would go to the houses of those who do not attend the prayer and burn their houses over them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent some horsemen to Najd and they arrested and brought a man called Thumama bin Uthal from the tribe of Bani Hanifa, and they fastened him to one of the pillars of the Mosque (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed a date fallen on the way and said, "Were I not afraid that it may be from a Sadaqa (charitable gifts), I would have eaten it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Sometimes when I return home and find a date fallen on my bed, I pick it up in order to eat it, but I fear that it might be from a Sadaqa, so I throw it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Help your brother, whether he is an oppressor or he is an oppressed one (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A believer to another believer is like a building whose different parts enforce each other." The Prophet (ﷺ) then clasped his hands with the fingers interlaced (while saying that) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Oppression will be a darkness on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh to Yemen and said, "Be afraid, from the curse of the oppressed as there is no screen between his invocation and Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever usurps the land of somebody unjustly, his neck will be encircled with it down the seven earths (on the Day of Resurrection) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father (i.e. `Abdullah):The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes a piece of the land of others unjustly, he will sink down the seven earths on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most hated person in the sight of Allah is the most quarrelsome person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:When Allah took away the soul of His Prophet at his death, the Ansar assembled In the shed of Bani Sa`ida. I said to Abu Bakr, "Let us go." So, we come to them (i.e. to Ansar) at the shed of Bani Sa`ida. (See Hadith No. 19, Vol. 5 for details) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Araj:Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'No one should prevent his neighbor from fixing a wooden peg in his wall." Abu Huraira said (to his companions), "Why do I find you averse to it? By Allah, I certainly will narrate it to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) entered the Mosque, and I too went there after tying the camel at the pavement of the Mosque. I said (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ), "This is your camel." He came out and started examining the camel and said, "Both the camel and its price are for you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) coming (or the Prophet (ﷺ) came) to the dumps of some people and urinated there while standing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "While a man was on the way, he found a thorny branch of a tree there on the way and removed it. Allah thanked him for that deed and forgave him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) judged that seven cubits should be left as a public way when there was a dispute about the land (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Yazid Al-Ansari:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade robbery (taking away what belongs to others without their permission), and also forbade mutilation (or maiming) of bodies (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca and (at that time) there were three hundred-and-sixty idols around the Ka`ba. He started stabbing the idols with a stick he had in his hand and reciting: "Truth (Islam) has come and Falsehood (disbelief) has vanished (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Qasim:Aisha said that she hung a curtain decorated with pictures (of animals) on a cupboard. The Prophet (ﷺ) tore that curtain and she turned it into two cushions which remained in the house for the Prophet (ﷺ) to sit on (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr bin Al-`As:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever is killed while protecting his property then he is a martyr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij:We used to offer the `Asr prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and slaughter a camel, the meat of which would be divided in ten parts. We would eat the cooked meat before sunset (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:that Abu Bakr As-Siddiq wrote to him the law of Zakat which was made obligatory by Allah's Apostle. He wrote: 'Partners possessing joint property (sheep) have to pay its Zakat equally (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) decreed that one should not eat two dates together at a time unless he gets the permission from his companions (sharing the meal with him) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) established the right of Shu'fa (i.e. Preemption) in joint properties; but when the land is divided and the ways are demarcated, then there is no pre-emption (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The right of preemption is valid in every joint property, but when the land is divided and the way is demarcated, then there is no right of pre-emption (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rented the land of Khaibar to the Jews on the condition that they would work on it and cultivate it and take half of its yield (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave him some sheep to distribute among his companions in order to sacrifice them and a kid was left. He told the Prophet (ﷺ) about it and the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Sacrifice it on your behalf (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) bought some foodstuff on credit for a limited period and mortgaged his armor for it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One can ride the mortgaged animal because of what one spends on it, and one can drink the milk of a milch animal as long as it is mortgaged (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The mortgaged animal can be used for riding as long as it is fed and the milk of the milch animal can be drunk according to what one spend on it. The one who rides the animal or drinks its milk should provide the expenditures (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) bought some foodstuff from a Jew and mortgaged his armor to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abu Mulaika:I wrote a letter to Ibn `Abbas and he wrote to me that the Prophet (ﷺ) had given the verdict that the defendant had to take an oath (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to free slaves at the time of solar eclipses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr:We were ordered to free slaves at the time of lunar eclipses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever manumits a slave owned by two masters, should manumit him completely (not partially) if he is rich after having its price evaluated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever frees his portion of a (common) slave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has accepted my invocation to forgive what whispers in the hearts of my followers, unless they put it to action or utter it." (See Hadith No. 657 Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais:When Abu Huraira accompanied by his slave came intending to embrace Islam, they lost each other on the way. (When the slave showed up) Abu Huraira said (to the Prophet), "I make you witness that the slave is free for Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:A man amongst us declared that his slave would be freed after his death. The Prophet (ﷺ) called for that slave and sold him. The slave died the same year (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the selling or donating the Wala' of a freed slave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Some men of the Ansar asked for the permission of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "Allow us to give up the ransom from our nephew Al-`Abbas. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to them), "Do not leave (even) a Dirham (of his ransom) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He who has a slave-girl and educates and treats her nicely and then manumits and marries her, will get a double reward (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a slave is honest and faithful to his master and worships his Lord (Allah) in a perfect manner, he will get a double reward (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A pious slave gets a double reward." Abu Huraira added: By Him in Whose Hands my soul is but for Jihad (i.e. holy battles), Hajj, and my duty to serve my mother, I would have loved to die as a slave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Goodness and comfort are for him who worships his Lord in a perfect manner and serves his master sincerely (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a slave serves his Saiyid (i.e. master) sincerely and worships his Lord (Allah) perfectly, he will get a double reward (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Mamluk (slave) who worships his Lord in a perfect manner, and is dutiful, sincere and obedient to his Saiyid (master), will get a double reward (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When your servant brings your meals to you then if he does not let him sit and share the meals, then he should at least give him a mouthful or two mouthfuls of that meal or a meal or two meals, as he has prepared it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody fights (or beats somebody) then he should avoid the face (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Aisha wanted to buy a slave-girl in order to manumit her. The girl's masters stipulated that her Wala' would be for them. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to `Aisha), "What they stipulate should not stop you, for the Wala' is for the liberator (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Muslim women! None of you should look down upon the gift sent by her female neighbor even if it were the trotters of the sheep (fleshless part of legs) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I shall accept the invitation even if I were invited to a meal of a sheep's trotter, and I shall accept the gift even if it were an arm or a trotter of a sheep (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The people used to look forward for the days of my (`Aisha's) turn to send gifts to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in order to please him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Some meat was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and it was said that the meat had been given in charity to Barirah. He said, "It was Sadaqa for Barirah but a gift for us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The people used to send gifts to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of my turn. Um Salama said: "My companions (the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) Other than Aisha) gathered and they complained about it. So I informed the Prophet about it on their behalf, but he remained silent (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Azra bin Thabit Al-Ansari:When I went to Thumama bin `Abdullah, he gave me some perfume and said that Anas would not reject the gifts of perfume. Anas said: The Prophet (ﷺ) used not to reject the gifts of perfume (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to accept gifts and used to give something in return (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated An-Nu`man bin Bashir:that his father took him to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I have given this son of mine a slave." The Prophet asked, "Have you given all your sons the like?" He replied in the negative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take back your gift then (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One who takes back his gift (which he has already given) is like a dog that swallows its vomit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma:Once I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have no property except what has been given to me by Az-Zubair (i.e. her husband). May I give in charity?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Give in charity and do not withhold it; otherwise Allah will withhold it back from you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give (in charity) and do not give reluctantly lest Allah should give you in a limited amount; and do not withhold your money lest Allah should withhold it from you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) that she manumitted her slave-girl and the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "You would have got more reward if you had given the slave-girl to one of your maternal uncles (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have two neighbors; which of them should I give a gift to?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Give) to the one whose door is nearer to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Jabir (ra) said, "I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the mosque and he paid me my right and gave me more than he owed me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar (ra):We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey, and I was riding a troublesome camel. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked 'Umar to sell that camel to him. So, 'Umar sold it to him. The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "O 'Abdullah! The camel is for you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) gave me a silken dress as a gift and I wore it. When I saw the signs of anger on his face, I cut it into pieces and distributed it among my wives (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who takes back his present is like him who swallows his vomit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The bad example is not for us. He who takes back his present is like a dog that swallows back its vomit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) gave the verdict that `Umra is for the one to whom it is presented (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Umra is permissible." Ata said, "Jabir narrated the same to me from the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:Once I gave a horse (for riding) in Allah's Cause. Later I saw it being sold. I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (whether I could buy it). He said, "Don't buy it, for you should not get back what you have given in charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said about Hamza's daughter, "I am not legally permitted to marry her, as foster relations are treated like blood relations (in marital affairs). She is the daughter of my foster brother (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that an unmarried man who committed illegal sexual intercourse be scourged one hundred lashes and sent into exile for one year (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Isn't the witness of a woman equal to half of that of a man?" The women said, "Yes." He said, "This is because of the deficiency of a woman's mind (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) heard someone praising another and exaggerating in his praise. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You have ruined or cut the man's back (by praising him so much) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bath on Friday is compulsory for those who have attained the age of puberty (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abu Mulaika:Ibn `Abbas wrote that the Prophet (ﷺ) gave his verdict on the basis of the defendant's oath (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes a (false) oath in order to grab (others) property, then Allah will be angry with him when he will meet Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) asked some people to take an oath, and they hurried for it. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that lots should be drawn amongst them as to who would take an oath first (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has to take an oath should swear by Allah or remain silent." (i.e. He should not swear by other than Allah) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The signs of a hypocrite are three: (1) whenever he speaks, he tells a lie, (2) whenever he is entrusted, he proves to be dishonest, (3) whenever he promises, he breaks his promise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Kulthum bint `Uqba:That she heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "He who makes peace between the people by inventing good information or saying good things, is not a liar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Once the people of Quba fought with each other till they threw stones on each other. When Allah's Apostle was informed about it, he said, "Let us go to bring about a reconciliation between them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody innovates something which is not in harmony with the principles of our religion, that thing is rejected (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Abu Hathma:`Abdullah bin Sahl and Muhaiyisa bin Mas`ud bin Zaid went to Khaibar when it had a peace treaty (with the Muslims) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a Sadaqa to be given for every joint of the human body; and for every day on which the sun rises there is a reward of a Sadaqa (i.e. charitable gift) for the one who establishes justice among people (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir:When I gave the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he stipulated that I should give good advice to every Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I gave the pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for offering the prayers perfectly paying the Zakat and giving good advice to every Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If someone sells pollinated date-palms, their fruits will be for the seller, unless the buyer stipulates the contrary (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave the land of Khaibar to the Jews on the condition that they would work on it and cultivate it and they would get half of its yield (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin Amir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "From among all the conditions which you have to fulfill, the conditions which make it legal for you to have sexual relations (i.e. the marriage contract) have the greatest right to be fulfilled (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned a person who asked an Israeli man to lend him one-thousand Dinars, and the Israeli lent him the sum for a certain fixed period (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has ninety-nine names, i.e. one-hundred minus one, and whoever knows them will go to Paradise." (Please see Hadith No. 419 Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not permissible for any Muslim who has something to will to stay for two nights without having his last will and testament written and kept ready with him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I recommend that people reduce the proportion of what they bequeath by will to the fourth (of the whole legacy), for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "One-third, yet even one third is too much (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The signs of a hypocrite are three: Whenever he speaks he tells a lie; whenever he is entrusted he proves dishonest; whenever he promises he breaks his promise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana and said to him, "Ride on it," and on the second or the third time he added, "Woe to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:A man said to the Prophet, "My mother died suddenly, and I think that if she could speak, she would have given in charity. May I give in charity on her behalf?" He said, "Yes! Give in charity on her behalf (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Sa`d bin Ubada consulted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "My mother died and she had an unfulfilled vow." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , "My mother died, will it benefit her if I give in charity on her behalf?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied in the affirmative. The man said, "I have a garden and I make you a witness that I give it in charity on her behalf (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the mosque be built, he said, "O Bani An-Najjar! Suggest to me a price for this garden of yours." They replied, "By Allah! We will demand its price from none but Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to Medina, he ordered that a mosque be built. He said, "O Bani An- Najjar! Suggest me a price for the garden of yours." They replied, "By Allah, we will not ask its price except from Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "My heirs will not inherit a Dinar or a Dirham (i.e. money), for whatever I leave (excluding the adequate support of my wives and the wages of my employees) is given in charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:When `Umar founded an endowment he stipulated that its administrator could eat from it and also feed his friend on the condition that he would not store anything for himself from it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (at the time of building the Mosque), "O Ban, An-Najjar! Suggest to me a price for your garden." They replied, "We do not ask its price except from Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no Hijra (i.e. migration) (from Mecca to Medina) after the Conquest (of Mecca), but Jihad and good intention remain; and if you are called (by the Muslim ruler) for fighting, go forth immediately (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(That she said), "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We consider Jihad as the best deed. Should we not fight in Allah's Cause?" He said, "The best Jihad (for women) is Hajj-Mabrur (i.e. Hajj which is done according to the Prophet's tradition and is accepted by Allah) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night two men came to me (in a dream) and made me ascend a tree and then admitted me into a better and superior house, better of which I have never seen. One of them said, 'This house is the house of martyrs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A single endeavor (of fighting) in Allah's Cause in the forenoon or in the afternoon is better than the world and whatever is in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A single endeavor in Allah's Cause in the afternoon and in the forenoon is better than the world and whatever is in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jundab bin Sufyan:In one of the holy Battles a finger of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (got wounded and) bled. He said, "You are just a finger that bled, and what you got is in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "By Him in Whose Hands my soul is! Whoever is wounded in Allah's Cause....and Allah knows well who gets wounded in His Cause....will come on the Day of Resurrection with his wound having the color of blood but the scent of musk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu `Abs:(who is `Abdur-Rahman bin Jabir) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said," Anyone whose both feet get covered with dust in Allah's Cause will not be touched by the (Hell) fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:"Some people drank alcohol in the morning of the day (of the battle) of Uhud and were martyred (on the same day)." Sufyan was asked, "(Were they martyred) in the last part of the day?)" He replied, "Such information does not occur in the narration (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody who enters Paradise likes to go back to the world even if he got everything on the earth, except a Mujahid who wishes to return to the world so that he may be martyred ten times because of the dignity he receives (from Allah) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Know that Paradise is under the shades of swords (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was the best, the bravest and the most generous of all the people. Once when the people of Medina got frightened, the Prophet (ﷺ) rode a horse and went ahead of them and said, "We found this horse very fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from helplessness, laziness, cowardice and feeble old age; I seek refuge with You from afflictions of life and death and seek refuge with You from the punishment in the grave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'-ib bin Yazid:I was in the company of Talha bin 'Ubaidullah, Sa`d, Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad and `Abdur Rahman bin `Auf and I heard none of them narrating anything from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) but Talha was talking about the day (of the battle) of Uhud (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:On the day of the Conquest (of Mecca) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no emigration after the Conquest but Jihad and intentions. When you are called (by the Muslim ruler) for fighting, go forth immediately." (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah welcomes two men with a smile; one of whom kills the other and both of them enter Paradise. One fights in Allah's Cause and gets killed. Later on Allah forgives the 'killer who also get martyred (In Allah's Cause) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:In the life-time of the Prophet, Abu Talha did not fast because of the Jihad, but after the Prophet (ﷺ) died I never saw him without fasting except on `Id-ul-Fitr and `Id-ul-Aclha (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Five are regarded as martyrs: They are those who die because of plague, Abdominal disease, drowning or a falling building etc., and the martyrs in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Plague is the cause of martyrdom of every Muslim (who dies because of it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim Abu-An-Nadr:`Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa wrote and I read what he wrote that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When you face them ( i.e. your enemy) then be patient (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) went on carrying (i.e. the earth) and saying, "Without You (O Allah!) we would have got no guidance (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:We returned from the Ghazwa of Tabuk along with the Prophet. (See Hadith No. 92 below) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in a Ghazwa he said, "Some people have remained behind us in Medina and we never crossed a mountain path or a valley, but they were with us (i.e. sharing the reward with us), as they have been held back by a (legal) excuse (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Indeed, anyone who fasts for one day for Allah's Pleasure, Allah will keep his face away from the (Hell) fire for (a distance covered by a journey of) seventy years (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, " He who pre pares a Ghazi going in Allah's Cause is given a reward equal to that of) a Ghazi; and he who looks after properly the dependents of a Ghazi going in Allah's Cause is (given a reward equal to that of) Ghazi (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used not to enter any house in Medina except the house of Um Sulaim besides those of his wives when he was asked why, he said, "I take pity on her as her brother was killed in my company (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Malik bin Al-Huwairith:On my departure from the Prophet (ﷺ) he said to me and to a friend of mine, "You two, pronounce the Adhan and the Iqama for the prayer and let the elder of you lead the prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Good will remain (as a permanent quality) in the foreheads of horses till the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Urwa bin Ja'd:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Good will remain (as a permanent quality) in the foreheads of horses till the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (ﷺ) said, "There is a blessing in the fore-heads of horses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Urwa Al-Bariqi:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Good will remain (as a permanent quality) in the foreheads of horses (for Jihad) till the Day of Resurrection, for they bring about either a reward (in the Hereafter) or (war) booty (in this world) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody keeps a horse in Allah's Cause motivated by his faith in Allah and his belief in His Promise, then he will be rewarded on the Day of Resurrection for what the horse has eaten or drunk and for its dung and urine (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:In our garden there was a horse belonging to the Prophet (ﷺ) called Al-Luhaif or Al-Lakhif (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying. "Evil omen is in three things: The horse, the woman and the house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d Saidi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "If there is any evil omen in anything, then it is in the woman, the horse and the house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:There was a feeling of fright in Medina, so the Prophet (ﷺ) borrowed a horse called Mandub belonging 'to Abu Talha and mounted it. (On his return), he said, "I did not see anything of fright and I found this horse very fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fixed two shares for the horse and one share for its rider (from the war booty) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn'`Umar:When the Prophet (ﷺ) put his feet in the stirrup and the she-camel got up carrying him he would start reciting Talbiya at the mosque of Dhul-Hulaifa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) met them (i.e. the people) while he was riding an unsaddled horse with his sword slung over his shoulder (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) arranged for a horse race of the horses which had not been made lean; the area of the race was from Ath-Thaniya to the mosque of Bani Zuraiq. (The sub-narrator said, "`Abdullah bin `Umar was amongst those who participated in that horse race) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The she camel of the Prophet (ﷺ) was called Al-Adba (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin Al-Harith:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not leave anything behind him after his death except a white mule, his arms and a piece of land which he left to be given in charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:the mother of the faithful believers, I requested the Prophet (ﷺ) permit me to participate in Jihad, but he said, "Your Jihad is the performance of Hajj (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:the mother of the faithful believers: The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked by his wives about the Jihad and he replied, "The best Jihad (for you) is (the performance of) Hajj (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ar-Rubayyi 'bint Mu'auwidh:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) providing the wounded with water and treating them and bringing the killed to Medina (from the battle field) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ar-Rabi'bint Mu'auwidh:We used to take part in holy battles with the Prophet (ﷺ) by providing the people with water and serving them and bringing the killed and the wounded back to Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:Abu 'Amir was hit with an arrow in his knee, so I went to him and he asked me to remove the arrow. When I removed it, the water started dribbling from it. Then I went to the Prophet (ﷺ) and told him about it. He said, "O Allah! Forgive `Ubaid Abu 'Amir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Let the slave of Dinar and Dirham of Quantify and Khamisa (i.e. money and luxurious clothes) perish for he is pleased if these things are given to him, and if not, he is displeased (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mus`ab bin Sa`d:Once Sa`d (bin Abi Waqqas) thought that he was superior to those who were below him in rank. On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You gain no victory or livelihood except through (the blessings and invocations of) the poor amongst you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Usaid:On the day (of the battle) of Badr when we stood in rows against (the army of) Quraish and they stood in rows against us, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When they do come near you, throw arrows at them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:While some Ethiopians were playing in the presence of the Prophet, `Umar came in, picked up a stone and hit them with it. On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O `Umar! Allow them (to play)." Ma`mar (the subnarrator) added that they were playing in the Mosque (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Abu Talha and the Prophet (ﷺ) used to shield themselves with one shield. Abu Talha was a good archer, and when he threw (his arrows) the Prophet (ﷺ) would look at the target of his arrows (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Let my parents sacrifice their lives for you," to any man after Sa`d. I heard him saying (to him), "Throw (the arrows)! Let my parents sacrifice their lives for you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Umama:Some people conquered many countries and their swords were decorated neither with gold nor silver, but they were decorated with leather, lead and iron (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin Al-Harith:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not leave behind him after his death, anything except his arms, his white mule, and a piece of land at Khaibar which he left to be given in charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died while his (iron) armor was mortgaged to a Jew for thirty Sas of barley (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and Az-Zubair to wear silken shirts because they had a skin disease causing itching (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:As above. Narrated Anas: `Abdur Rahman bin `Auf and Az-Zubair complained to the Prophet, i.e. about the lice (that caused itching) so he allowed them to wear silken clothes. I saw them wearing such clothes in a holy battle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf and Az-Zubair bin Al-`Awwam to wear silk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:(Wearing of silk) was allowed to them (i.e. `AbdurRahman and Az-Zubair) because of the itching they suffered from (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Umaiya Ad-Damri:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) eating of a shoulder (of a sheep) by cutting from it and then he was called to prayer and he prayed without repeating his ablution. Narrated Az-Zuhri: as above (Hadith No. 173...) and added that the Prophet (ﷺ) put the knife down (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You (i.e. Muslims) will fight with the Jews until some of them will hide behind stones. The stones will (betray them) saying, 'O `Abdullah (i.e. slave of Allah)! There is a Jew hiding behind me; so kill him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established until you fight with the Jews, and the stone behind which a Jew will be hiding will say. "O Muslim! There is a Jew hiding behind me, so kill him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:When it was the day of the battle of Al-Ahzab (i.e. the clans), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Fill their (i.e. the infidels') houses and graves with fire as they busied us so much that we did not perform the prayer (i.e. `Asr) till the sun set (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoked evil upon the pagans on the ay (of the battle) of Al-Ahzab, saying, "O Allah! The Revealer of the Holy Book, the Swift-Taker of Accounts, O Allah, defeat Al-Ahzab (i.e. the clans), O Allah, defeat them and shake them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wrote a letter to Caesar saying, "If you reject Islam, you will be responsible for the sins of the tillers (i.e. your people) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:as Hadith No. 193 above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ka`b bin Malik:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to lead a Ghazwa, he would use an equivocation from which one would understand that he was going to a different destination (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Ka`b bin Malik used to say:"Scarcely did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out for a journey on a day other than Thursday (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ka`b bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) set out on Thursday for the Ghazwa of Tabuk and he used to prefer to set out (i.e. travel) on Thursdays (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered a four-rak`at Zuhr prayer at Medina and then offered a two rak`at `Asr prayer at Dhul-Hulaifa and I heard the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Talbiya aloud (for Hajj and `Umra) altogether (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) set out in the month of Ramadan. He observed fasting till he reached a place called Kadid where he broke his fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The 'Prophet said, "It is obligatory for one to listen to and obey (the ruler's orders) unless these orders involve one disobedience (to Allah); but if an act of disobedience (to Allah) is imposed, he should not listen to or obey it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once there was a feeling of fright at Medina, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse belonging to Abu Talha and (on his return) he said, "We have not seen anything (fearful), but we found this horse very fast (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Al-Khattab:I gave a horse to be used in Allah's Cause, but later on I saw it being sold. I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) whether I could buy it. He said, "Don't buy it and don't take back your gift of charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar gave a horse to be used in Allah's Cause, but later on he found it being sold. So, he intended to buy it and asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Don't buy it and don't take back your gift of charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Tha`laba bin Abi Malik Al-Qurazi:When Qais bin Sa`d Al-Ansari, who used to carry the flag of the Prophet, intended to perform Hajj, he combed his hair (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi bin Jubair: I heard Al Abbas telling Az-Zubair, "The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered you to fix the flag here (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:During the life-time of the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to take the meat of sacrificed animals (as journey food) to Medina. (See Hadith No. 474 Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakr As-Siddiq:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me to let `Aisha sit behind me (on the animal) and to let her perform `Umra from at-Tan`im (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:I was riding behind Abu Talha (on the same) riding animal and (the Prophet's companions) were reciting Talbiya aloud for both Hajj and `Umra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Urwa from Usama bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a donkey on which there was a saddle covered by a velvet sheet and let Usama ride behind him (on the donkey) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the people to travel to a hostile country carrying (copies of) the Qur'an (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Whenever we went up a place we would say, "Allahu--Akbar (i.e. Allah is Greater)", and whenever we went down a place we would say, "Subhan Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Whenever we went up a place we would say Takbir, and whenever we went down we would say, "Subhan Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn' `Umar:from the Prophet (ﷺ) the following Hadith (No. 242). Narrated Ibn `Umar: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the people knew what I know about traveling alone, then nobody would travel alone at night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham's father:Usama bin Zaid was asked at what pace the Prophet (ﷺ) rode during Hajjat-ul-Wada` "He rode at a medium pace, but when he came upon an open way he would go at full pace (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Journey is a piece of torture, for it disturbs one's sleep, eating and drinking. So, when you fulfill your job, you should hurry up to your family (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:`Umar bin Al-Khattab gave a horse to be ridden in Allah's Cause and then he found it being sold. He intended to purchase it. So, he consulted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who said, "Don't buy it and don't take back your gift of charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) asking his permission to take part in Jihad. The Prophet (ﷺ) asked him, "Are your parents alive?" He replied in the affirmative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Then exert yourself in their service (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah wonders at those people who will enter Paradise in chains (from eng-bukhari.txt)
As above (hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:During some of the Ghazawat of the Prophet (ﷺ) a woman was found killed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disapproved the killing of women and children (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:During some of the Ghazawat of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a woman was found killed, so Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the killing of women and children (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) burnt the date-palms of Bani An-Nadir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a group of the Ansar to Abu Rafi`. `Abdullah bin Atik entered his house at night and killed him while he was sleeping (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Do not wish to meet the enemy, but when you meet face) the enemy, be patient (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Khosrau will be ruined, and there will be no Khosrau after him, and Caesar will surely be ruined and there will be no Caesar after him, and you will spend their treasures in Allah's Cause." He called, "War is deceit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Khosrau will be ruined, and there will be no Khosrau after him, and Caesar will surely be ruined and there will be no Caesar after him, and you will spend their treasures in Allah's Cause." He called, "War is deceit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) called,: "War is deceit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "War is deceit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Burda:That his father said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu`adh and Abu Musa to Yemen telling them. 'Treat the people with ease and don't be hard on them; give them glad tidings and don't fill them with aversion; and love each other, and don't differ (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik (ra):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered (Makkah) in the year of the Conquest (of Makkah) wearing a helmet over his head. After he took it off, a man came and said, "Ibn Khatal is clinging to the curtains of the Ka'bah." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Free the captives, feed the hungry and pay a visit to the sick (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Some Ansari men asked permission from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Allow us not to take the ransom of our nephew Al `Abbas. The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Do not leave a single Dirham thereof (from eng-bukhari.txt)
(In another narration) Anas said:"Some wealth was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) from Bahrain. Al `Abbas came to him and said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Give me (some of it), as I have paid my and `Aqil's ransom.' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Take,' and gave him in his garment (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jubair:(who was among the captives of the Battle of Badr) I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting 'Surat-at-Tur' in the Maghrib prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have enlisted in the army for such-andsuch Ghazwa, and my wife is leaving for Hajj." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Go back and perform Hajj with your wife (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Talha:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) conquered some people, he would stay in their town for three days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed `Umra, setting out from Al-Jarana where he distributed the war booty of Hunain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Once a slave of Ibn `Umar fled and joined the Byzantine. Khalid bin Al-Walid got him back and returned him to `Abdullah (bin `Umar). Once a horse of Ibn `Umar also ran away and followed the Byzantines, and he (i.e. Khalid) got it back and returned it to `Abdullah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Al-Hasan bin 'All took a date from the dates of the Sadaqa and put it in his mouth. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him) in Persian, "Kakh, kakh! (i.e. Don't you know that we do not eat the Sadaqa (i.e. what is given in charity) (charity is the dirt of the people) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, on the day of the Conquest of Mecca, "There is no migration (after the Conquest), but Jihad and good intentions, and when you are called for Jihad, you should immediately respond to the call (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ata':I and 'Ubai bin `Umar went to `Aisha while she was staying near Thabir (i.e. a mountain). She said, "There is no Migration after Allah gave His Prophet victory over Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:I along with some boys went out to receive Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at Thaniyatal-Wada (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I was on a journey in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and when we reached Medina, he said to me, "Enter the Mosque and offer two rak`at (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ka`b:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) returned from a journey in the forenoon, he would enter the Mosque and offer two rak`at before sitting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Once I returned from a journey and the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to me) "Offer two rak`at." (Sirar is a place near Medina) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "My heirs should not take even a single Dinar (i.e. anything from my property), and whatever I leave, excluding the expenditure of my wives and my laborers, will be Sadaqa (i.e. be used for charity) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, and there was nothing in my house that a living being could eat, except some barley Lying on a shelf. So, I ate of it for a long period and measured it, and (after a short period) it was consumed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin Al-Harith:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not leave anything (after his death) except his arms, a white mule, and a (piece of) land which he had given as Sadaqa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) When the sickness of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got aggravated, he asked the permission of his wives that he should be treated in my house, and they permitted him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Once I went upstairs in Hafsa's house and saw the Prophet (ﷺ) answering the call of nature with his back towards the Qibla and facing Sham (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to offer the `Asr prayer while the sun was still shining in her Hujra (i.e. her dwelling place) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and delivered a sermon, and pointing to `Aisha's house (i.e. eastwards), he said thrice, "Affliction (will appear from) here," and, "from where the side of the Satan's head comes out (i.e. from the East) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:That when Abu Bakr became the Caliph, he sent him to Bahrain and wrote this letter for him, and stamped it with the Ring of the Prophet. Three lines were engraved on the Ring, (the word) 'Muhammad' was in a line, 'Apostle' was in another line, and 'Allah' in a third (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Isa bin Tahman:Anas brought out to us two worn out leather shoes without hair and with pieces of leather straps. Later on Thabit Al-Banani told me that Anas said that they were the shoes of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the cup of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got broken, he fixed it with a silver wire at the crack. (The subnarrator, `Asim said, "I saw the cup and drank (water) in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Muhammad bin Suqa:I heard Mundhir at-Tuzi reporting Ibn Hanafiya who said, "My father sent me saying, 'Take this letter to `Uthman for it contains the orders of the Prophet (ﷺ) concerning the Sadaqa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Neither do I give you (anything) nor withhold (anything) from you, but I am just a distributor (i.e. Qasim), and I give as I am ordered (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Khaula Al-Ansariya:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Some people spend Allah's Wealth (i.e. Muslim's wealth) in an unjust manner; such people will be put in the (Hell) Fire on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Urwa-al-Bariqi:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Horses are always the source of good, namely, rewards (in the Hereafter) and booty, till the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Khosrau is ruined, there will be no Khosrau after him; and when Caesar is ruined, there will be no Caesar after him. By Him in Whose Hands my life is, you will spend their treasures in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samura:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Khosrau is ruined, there will be no Khosrau after him; and when Caesar is ruined, their will be no Caesar after him. By Him in Whose Hands my life is, you will spend their treasures in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Booty has been made legal for me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aslam:`Umar said, "Were it not for those Muslims who have not come to existence yet, I would have distributed (the land of) every town I conquer among the fighters as the Prophet (ﷺ) distributed the land of Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:People used to give some of their datepalms to the Prophet (as a gift), till he conquered Bani Quraiza and Bani An-Nadir, whereupon he started returning their favors (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi` from Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a Sariya towards Najd, and `Abdullah bin `Umar was in the Sariya. They gained a great number of camels as war booty. The share of each one of them was twelve or eleven camels, and they were given an extra camel each (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to give extra share to some of the members of the Sariya he used to send, in addition to the shares they shared with the army in general (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was distributing the booty at Al-Ja'rana, somebody said to him "Be just (in your distribution)." The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "Verily I would be miserable if I did not act justly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:The Prophet (ﷺ) talked about war prisoners of Badr saying, "Had Al-Mut`im bin Adi been alive and interceded with me for these mean people, I would have freed them for his sake (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I give to Quraish people in order to let them adhere to Islam, for they are near to their life of Ignorance (i.e. they have newly embraced Islam and it is still not strong in their hearts) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:While we were besieging the fort of Khaibar, a person threw a leather container containing fat, and I ran to take it, but when I turned I saw the Prophet (standing behind), so I felt embarrassed in front of him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:In our holy battles, we used to get honey and grapes, as war booty which we would eat and would not store (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Humaid As-Saidi:We accompanied the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Ghazwa of Tabuk and the king of 'Aila presented a white mule and a cloak as a gift to the Prophet. And the Prophet (ﷺ) wrote to him a peace treaty allowing him to keep authority over his country (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever killed a person having a treaty with the Muslims, shall not smell the smell of Paradise though its smell is perceived from a distance of forty years (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated ' `Abdullah bin `Abbas:That Abu Sufyan bin Harb Informed him that Heraclius called him and the members of a caravan from Quraish who had gone to Sham as traders, during the truce which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had concluded with Abu Sufyan and the Quraish infidels (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was bewitched so that he began to imagine that he had done a thing which in fact he had not done (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, ''Every betrayer will have a flag on the Day of Resurrection" One of the two subnarrators said that the flag would be fixed, and the other said that it would be shown on the Day of Resurrection, so that the betrayer might be recognized by it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, ''Every betrayer will have a flag on the Day of Resurrection" One of the two subnarrators said that the flag would be fixed, and the other said that it would be shown on the Day of Resurrection, so that the betrayer might be recognized by it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every betrayer will have a flag which will be fixed on the Day of Resurrection, and the flag's prominence will be made in order to show the betrayal he committed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Allah completed the creation, He wrote in His Book which is with Him on His Throne, "My Mercy overpowers My Anger (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Any person who takes a piece of land unjustly will sink down the seven earths on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon will be folded up (deprived of their light) on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon do not eclipse because of someone's death or life (i.e. birth), but they are two signs amongst the Signs of Allah. So, if you see them (i.e. eclipse) offer the (eclipse) prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sun and the moon are two signs amongst the Signs of Allah. They do not eclipse because of someone's death or life. So, if you see them (i.e. eclipse), celebrate the Praises of Allah (i.e. pray) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "the sun and the moon do not eclipse because of the death or life of someone, but they are two signs amongst the Signs of Allah. So, if you see them, offer the Prayer (of eclipse) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been made victorious with the Saba (i.e. easterly wind) and the people of 'Ad were destroyed with the Dabur (i.e. westerly wind) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Hassan, "Lampoon them (i.e. the pagans) and Gabriel is with you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir:as below. Narrated Humaid bin Hilal: Anas bin Malik said, "As if I say a cloud of dust swirling up in the lane of Bani Ghanim." Musa added, "That was caused by the procession of Gabriel (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel read the Qur'an to me in one way (i.e. dialect) and I continued asking him to read it in different ways till he read it in seven different ways (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Talha:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying; "Angels (of Mercy) do not enter a house wherein there is a dog or a picture of a living creature (a human being or an animal) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father:Once Gabriel promised the Prophet (that he would visit him, but Gabriel did not come) and later on he said, "We, angels, do not enter a house which contains a picture or a dog (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Yali:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting the following Verse on the pulpit: "They will call: O Malik...' and Sufyan said that `Abdullah recited it: 'They will call: O Mali (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Regarding the Verse: "Indeed he (Muhammad) did see. Of the Signs of his Lord, The Greatest!" (53.18) That the Prophet (ﷺ) had seen a green carpet spread all over the horizon of the sky (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Whoever claimed that (the Prophet) Muhammad saw his Lord, is committing a great fault, for he only saw Gabriel in his genuine shape in which he was created covering the whole horizon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Last night I saw (in a dream) two men coming to me. One of them said, "The person who kindles the fire is Malik, the gate-keeper of the (Hell) Fire, and I am Gabriel, and this is Michael (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a husband calls his wife to his bed (i.e. to have sexual relation) and she refuses and causes him to sleep in anger, the angels will curse her till morning (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran bin Husain:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked at Paradise and found poor people forming the majority of its inhabitants; and I looked at Hell and saw that the majority of its inhabitants were women (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Verily! 70,000 or 700,000 of my followers will enter Paradise altogether; so that the first and the last amongst them will enter at the same time, and their faces will be glittering like the bright full moon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was given a silken garment, and its beauty and delicacy astonished the people. On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No doubt, the handkerchiefs of Sa`d bin Mu`adh in Paradise are better than this (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d Al-Saidi:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A place in Paradise equal to the size of a lash is better than the whole world and whatever is in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is a tree in Paradise (which is so big and huge that) if a rider travels in its shade for one hundred years, he would not be able to cross it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara (bin Azib):The Prophet, after the death of his son Ibrahim, said, "There is a wet-nurse for him (i.e. Ibrahim) in Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Paradise has eight gates, and one of them is called Ar-Raiyan through which none will enter but those who observe fasting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Delay the (Zuhr) Prayer till it gets cooler, for the severity of heat is from the increase in the heat of Hell (fire) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Jamra Ad-Dabi:I used to sit with Ibn `Abbas in Mecca. Once I had a fever and he said (to me), "Cool your fever with Zamzam water, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: 'It, (the Fever) is from the heat of the (Hell) Fire; so, cool it with water (or Zamzam water) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Fever is from the heat of the (Hell) Fire; so cool it with water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fever is from the heat of the (Hell) Fire, so cool it with water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fever is from the heat of the (Hell) Fire; so abate fever with water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Yali:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) on the pulpit reciting:-- "They will cry: "O Malik!' (43.77) (Malik is the gate-keeper (angel) of the (Hell) Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:It was mentioned before the Prophet (ﷺ) that there was a man who slept the night till morning (after sunrise). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He is a man in whose ears (or ear) Satan had urinated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Satan comes to one of you and says, 'Who created so-and-so? 'till he says, 'Who has created your Lord?' So, when he inspires such a question, one should seek refuge with Allah and give up such thoughts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the month of Ramadan comes, the gates of Paradise are opened and the gates of the (Hell) Fire are closed, and the devils are chained (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pointing towards the east saying, "Lo! Afflictions will verily emerge hence; afflictions will verily emerge hence where the (side of the head of) Satan appears (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered a prayer, and (after finishing) he said, "Satan came in front of me trying persistently to divert my attention from the prayer, but Allah gave me the strength to over-power him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When any human being is born. Satan touches him at both sides of the body with his two fingers, except Jesus, the son of Mary, whom Satan tried to touch but failed, for he touched the placenta-cover instead (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yawning is from Satan and if anyone of you yawns, he should check his yawning as much as possible, for if anyone of you (during the act of yawning) should say: 'Ha', Satan will laugh at him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about one's looking here and there during the prayer. He replied, "It is what Satan steals from the prayer of any one of you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you rouses from sleep and performs the ablution, he should wash his nose by putting water in it and then blowing it out thrice, because Satan has stayed in the upper part of his nose all the night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar (ra):Abu Lubaba and Zaid bin Khattab saw me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will come a time when the best property of a man will be sheep which he will graze on the tops of mountains and the places where rain falls (i.e. pastures) escaping to protect his religion from afflictions (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) called the Salamander, a mischief-doer. I have not heard him ordering that it should be killed. Sa`d bin Waqqas claims that the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that it should be killed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Sharik:That the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered her to kill Salamanders (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Kill the snake with two white lines on its back, for it blinds the on-looker and causes abortion (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that a short-tailed or mutilated-tailed snake (i.e. Abtar) should be killed, for it blinds the on-looker and causes abortion (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to kill snakes but when Abu Lubaba informed him that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the killing of snakes living in houses, he gave up killing them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to kill snakes but when Abu Lubaba informed him that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the killing of snakes living in houses, he gave up killing them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Five kinds of animals are mischief-doers and can be killed even in the Sanctuary: They are the rat the scorpion, the kite (a type of predatory bird), the crow and the rabid dog (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is not sinful of a person in the state of Ihram to kill any of these five animals: The scorpion, the rat, the rabid dog, the crow and the kite (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman entered the (Hell) Fire because of a cat which she had tied, neither giving it food nor setting it free to eat from the vermin of the earth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "If a house fly falls in the drink of anyone of you, he should dip it (in the drink) and take it out, for one of its wings has a disease and the other has the cure for the disease (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Talha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Angels do not enter a house that has either a dog or a picture in it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that the dogs should be killed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If somebody keeps a dog, he loses one Qirat (of the reward) of his good deeds everyday, except if he keeps it for the purpose of agriculture or for the protection of livestock (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sufyan bin Abi Zuhair Ash-Shani:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody keeps a dog that is neither used for farm work nor for guarding the livestock, he will lose one Qirat (of the reward) of his good deeds everyday (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But for the Israelis, meat would not decay and but for Eve, wives would never betray their husbands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever a person is murdered unjustly, there is a share from the burden of the crime on the first son of Adam for he was the first to start the tradition of murdering (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aishah (ra):I heard the Prophet (ﷺ), "Souls are like recruited troops: Those who are like qualities are inclined to each other, but those who have dissimilar qualities, differ (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited the following Verse) in the usual tone: 'Fahal-Min-Muddalkir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been made victorious with As-Saba (i.e. an easterly wind) and the people of 'Ad were destroyed by Ad-Dabur (i.e. a westerly wind) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting: "Fahal Min Muddakir." (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has made an opening in the wall of the Gog and Magog (people) like this, and he made with his hand (with the help of his fingers) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Samura:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Two persons came to me at night (in dream) (and took me along with them). We passed by a tall man who was so tall that I was not able to see his head and that person was Abraham (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Abraham did his circumcision with an adze* at the age of eighty." Narrated Abu Az-Zinad: (as above) With an adze*. * a type of cured blade axe (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Abraham did not tell a lie except on three occasions (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Sharik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered that the salamander should be killed and said, "It (i.e. the salamander) blew (the fire) on Abraham (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the mountain of Uhud came in the sight of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he said. "This is a mountain that loves us and is loved by us. O Allah! Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary, and I make (the area) in between these two mountains (of Medina) a sanctuary (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah forgive Lot: He wanted to have a powerful support (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited:-- 'Hal-min-Muddakir' (54.15) (Is there any that will remember) (and avoid evil) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zam`a:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) while referring to the person who had cut the legs of the she-camel (of the Prophet (ﷺ) Salih), saying, "The man who was appointed for doing this job, was a man of honor and power in his nation like Abu Zam`a (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not enter the ruined dwellings of those who were unjust to themselves unless (you enter) weeping, lest you should suffer the same punishment as was inflicted upon them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The honorable is the son of the honorable, the son the honorable, i.e. Joseph, the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The honorable, the son of the honorable, the son of the honorable, (was) Joseph, the son of Jacob! the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Were it not for Bani Israel, meat would not decay; and were it not for Eve, no woman would ever betray her husband (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Al-Khadir was named so because he sat over a barren white land, it turned green with plantation after (his sitting over it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:We were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) picking the fruits of the 'Arak trees, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Pick the black fruit, for it is the best." The companions asked, "Were you a shepherd?" He replied, "There was no prophet who was not a shepherd (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) once came to us and said, "All the nations were displayed in front of me, and I saw a large multitude of people covering the horizon. Somebody said, 'This is Moses and his followers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say that I am better than Yunus (i.e. Jonah)." Musadded added, "Jonah bin Matta (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No slave (of Allah) should say that I am better than Yunus bin Matta." So the Prophet mentioned his father's name with his name (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None should say that I am better than Yunus bin Matta (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The prostration in Sura-Sa`d is not amongst the compulsory prostrations, though I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrating on reciting it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Mary, the daughter of `Imran, was the best among the women (of the world of her time) and Khadija is the best amongst the women. (of this nation) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "I am the nearest of all the people to the son of Mary, and all the prophets are paternal brothers, and there has been no prophet between me and him (i.e. Jesus) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Both in this world and in the Hereafter, I am the nearest of all the people to Jesus, the son of Mary. The prophets are paternal brothers; their mothers are different, but their religion is one (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Jesus, seeing a man stealing, asked him, 'Did you steal?, He said, 'No, by Allah, besides Whom there is none who has the right to be worshipped' Jesus said, 'I believe in Allah and suspect my eyes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Do not exaggerate in praising me as the Christians praised the son of Mary, for I am only a Slave. So, call me the Slave of Allah and His Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "How will you be when the son of Mary (i.e. Jesus) descends amongst you and your imam is among you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:That she used to hate that one should keep his hands on his flanks while praying. She said that the Jew used to do so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard `Umar saying, "May Allah Curse so-and-so! Doesn't he know that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'May Allah curse the Jews for, though they were forbidden (to eat) fat, they liquefied it and sold it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Jews and the Christians do not dye (their grey hair), so you shall do the opposite of what they do (i.e. dye your grey hair and beards) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While a dog was going round a well and was about to die of thirst, an Israeli prostitute saw it and took off her shoe and watered it. So Allah forgave her because of that good deed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:As if I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) talking about one of the prophets whose nation had beaten him and caused him to bleed, while he was cleaning the blood off his face and saying, "O Allah! Forgive my nation, for they have no knowledge (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A man used to give loans to the people and used to say to his servant, 'If the debtor is poor, forgive him, so that Allah may forgive us.' So when he met Allah (after his death), Allah forgave him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Masud `Uqba:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One of the sayings of the prophets which the people have got, is. 'If you do not feel ashamed, then do whatever you like (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mus'ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "One of the sayings of the prophets which the people have got is, 'If you do not feel ashamed, then do whatever you like (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "While a man was walking, dragging his dress with pride, he was caused to be swallowed by the earth and will go on sinking in it till the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Regarding the Verse: 'And (We) made you into Shu'ub and Qabail-- (49.13) that Shu'uib means the big Qabail (i.e. nations) while the Qabail (i.e. tribes) means the branch tribes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked, "Who is the most honorable amongst the people?" He said, "The most righteous (i.e. Allah-fearing) amongst you." They said, "We do not ask you about this." He said, "Then Joseph, the prophet of Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Kulaib bin Wail:I asked Zainab bint Abi Salama (i.e. daughter of the wife of the Prophet, "Tell me about the Prophet (ﷺ) . Did he belong to the tribe of Mudar?" She replied, "Yes, he belonged to the tribe of Mudar and was from the offspring of An-Nadr bin Kinana (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Authority of ruling will remain with Quraish, even if only two of them remained (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Urwa bin Az-Zubair: `Abdullah bin Az-Zubair went with some women of the tribe of Bani Zuhra to `Aisha who used to treat them nicely because of their relation to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The tribe of Quraish, the Ansar, the (people of the tribe of) Julhaina, Muzaina, Aslam, Ashja', and Ghifar are my disciples and have no protectors except Allah and His Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Dhar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody claims to be the son of any other than his real father knowingly, he but disbelieves in Allah, and if somebody claims to belong to some folk to whom he does not belong, let such a person take his place in the (Hell) Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Wathila bin Al-Asqa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Verily, one of the worst lies is to claim falsely to be the son of someone other than one's real father, or to claim to have had a dream one has not had, or to attribute to me what I have not said (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the pulpit saying, "Verily, afflictions (will start) from here," pointing towards the east, "whence the side of the head of Satan comes out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The tribes of Quraish, Al-Ansar, Juhaina, Muzaina, Aslam, Ghifar and Ashja' are my helpers, and they have no protector (i.e. Master) except Allah and His Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:While Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was on the pulpit, he said, "May Allah forgive the tribe of Ghifar! And may Allah save the tribe of Aslam! The tribe of `Usaiya have disobeyed Allah and His Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah save the tribe of Aslam, and may Allah forgive the tribe of Ghifar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hour will not be established unless a man from the tribe of Qahtan appears, driving the people with his stick (ruling them with violence and oppression) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah (bin Mas`ud):The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who-ever slaps his face or tears the bosom of his dress, or calls the calls of the Period of Ignorance, is not from us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "`Amr bin Luhai bin Qam'a bin Khindif was the father of Khuza`a (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) said, (The people of) Aslam, Ghifar and some people of Muzaina and Juhaina or said (some people of Juhaina or Muzaina) are better with Allah or said (on the Day of resurrection) than the tribe of Asad, Tamim, Hawazin and Ghatafan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Verse:-- 'And warn your tribe of near kindred.' (26.214) was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) started calling (the 'Arab tribes), "O Bani Fihr, O Bani `Adi" mentioning first the various branch tribes of Quraish (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas: When the Verse:-- 'And warn your tribe of near kindred' (26.214). was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) started calling every tribe by its name (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent for the Ansar (and when they came), he asked, 'Is there any stranger amongst you?" They said, "No except the son of our sister." Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The son of the sister of some people belongs to them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Doesn't it astonish you how Allah protects me from the Quraish's abusing and cursing? They abuse Mudhammam and curse Mudhammam while I am Muhammad (and not Mudhammam) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) died when he was sixty three years old (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was in the market, a man called (somebody), "O Abu-l-Qasim!' The Prophet (ﷺ) turned to him and said "Name yourselves after me but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Name yourselves after me, but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu-l-Qasim said, "Name yourselves after me, but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Juhaifa:I saw the Prophet, and Al-Hasan resembled him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Wahb Abu Juhaifa As-Sawwai:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) and saw some white hair below his lower lip above the chin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hariz bin `Uthman:That he asked `Abdullah bin Busr (i.e. the companion of the Prophet), "Did you see the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was old?" He said, "He had a few white hairs between the lower lip and the chin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the handsomest of all the people, and had the best appearance. He was neither very tall nor short (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to dye (his) hair?" He said, "No, for there were only a few white hairs on his temples (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) was of moderate height having broad shoulders (long) hair reaching his ear-lobes. Once I saw him in a red cloak and I had never seen a more handsome than him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:Al-Bara' was asked, "Was the face of the Prophet (as bright) as a sword?" He said, "No, but (as bright) as a moon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:That Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to her in a happy mood with his features glittering with joy, and said, "Have you not heard what the Qaif has said about Zaid and Us-ama? He saw their feet and remarked. These belong to each other." (i.e. They are father and son) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent (as an Apostle) in the best of all the generations of Adam's offspring since their Creation (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) never used bad language neither a "Fahish nor a Mutafahish. He used to say "The best amongst you are those who have the best manners and character." (See Hadith No. 56 (B) Vol (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:I have never touched silk or Dibaj (i.e. thick silk) softer than the palm of the Prophet (ﷺ) nor have I smelt a perfume nicer than the sweat of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) was shier than a veiled virgin girl (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) never criticized any food (presented him), but he would eat it if he liked it; otherwise, he would leave it (without expressing his dislike) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhaina Al-Asdi:When the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated, he used to keep his arms so widely apart that we used to see his armpits. (The sub-narrator, Ibn Bukair said, "The whiteness of his armpits) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver his sermons while standing beside a trunk of a datepalm. When he had the pulpit made, he used it instead. The trunk started crying and the Prophet (ﷺ) went to it, rubbing his hand over it (to stop its crying) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till you fight with the Khudh and the Kirman from among the non-Arabs. They will be of red faces, flat noses and small eyes; their faces will look like flat shields, and their shoes will be of hair (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Taghlib:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Near the Hour you will fight with people who will wear hairy shoes; and you will also fight people with flat faces like shields (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The Jews will fight with you, and you will be given victory over them so that a stone will say, 'O Muslim! There is a Jew behind me; kill him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usama:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) stood on one of the high buildings (of Medina) and said, "Do you see what I see? I see affliction pouring among your hours like raindrops (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Um Salama:The Prophet (ﷺ) woke up and said, "Glorified be Allah: What great (how many) treasures have been sent down, and what great (how many ) afflictions have been sent down (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This branch from Quraish will ruin the people." The companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "What do you order us to do (then)?" He said, "I would suggest that the people keep away from them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:My companions learned (something about) good (through asking the Prophet) while I learned (something about) evil (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Day of (Judgment) will not be established till there is a war between two groups whose claims (or religion) will be the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Khosrau perishes, there will be no more Khosrau a after him, and when Caesar perishes, there will be no more Caesar after him," The Prophet (ﷺ) also said, "You will spend the treasures of both of them in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) brought out Al-Hasan and took him up the pulpit along with him and said, "This son of mine is a Saiyid (i.e. chief) and I hope that Allah will help him bring about reconciliation between two Muslim groups (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) had informed us of the death of Ja`far and Zaid before the news of their death reached us, and his eyes were shedding tears (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud:During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) the moon was split into two parts and on that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bear witness (to thus) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:That the Meccan people requested Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to show them a miracle, and so he showed them the splitting of the moon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The moon was split into two parts during the lifetime of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some of my followers will remain victorious (and on the right path) till the Last Day comes, and they will still be victorious (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is always goodness in horses till the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is always goodness in horses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakr:I said to the Prophet (ﷺ) while I was in the Cave. "If any of them should look under his feet, he would see us." He said, "O Abu Bakr! What do you think of two (persons) the third of whom is Allah? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:We used to compare the people as to who was better during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) . We used to regard Abu Bakr as the best, then `Umar, and then `Uthman (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I were to take a Khalil, I would have taken Abu Bakr, but he is my brother and my companion (in Islam) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aiyub:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I were to take a Khalil, I would have taken him (i.e. Abu Bakr) as a Khalil, but the Islamic brotherhood is better (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) who ordered her to return to him again. She said, "What if I came and did not find you?" as if she wanted to say, "If I found you dead?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you should not find me, go to Abu Bakr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ammar:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and there was none with him but five slaves, two women and Abu Bakr (i.e. those were the only converts to Islam then) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not abuse my companions for if any one of you spent gold equal to Uhud (in Allah's Cause) it would not be equal to a Mud or even a half Mud spent by one of them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) once climbed the mountain of Uhud with Abu Bakr, `Umar and `Uthman. The mountain shook with them. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to the mountain), "Be firm, O Uhud! For on you there are no more than a Prophet, a Siddiq and two martyrs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:We have been powerful since `Umar embraced Islam (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aslam:Ibn `Umar asked me about some matters concerning `Umar. He said, "Since Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died. I have never seen anybody more serious, hard working and generous than `Umar bin Al-Khattab (till the end of his life) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Hisham:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was holding `Umar bin Al-Khattab by the hand (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) we considered Abu Bakr as peerless and then `Umar and then `Uthman (coming next to him in superiority) and then we used not to differentiate between the companions of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
And narrated Sad that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to 'Ali, "Will you not be pleased from this that you are to me like Aaron was to Moses? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ubaida: Ali said (to the people of 'Iraq), "Judge as you used to judge, for I hate differences (and I do my best ) till the people unite as one group, or I die as my companions have died (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ash-Shu`bi:Whenever Ibn `Umar greeted Ibn Jafar, he used to say: "As-salamu-'Alaika (i.e. Peace be on you) O son of Dhu-l-Janahain (son of the two-winged person) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Bakr: Look at Muhammad through his family (i.e. if you are no good to his family you are not good to him) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Fatima is a part of me, and he who makes her angry, makes me angry (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Marwan bin Al-Hakam:While I was with `Uthman, a man came to him and said, "Appoint your successor." `Uthman said, "Has such successor been named?" He replied, "Yes, Az-Zubair." `Uthman said, thrice, "By Allah! Indeed you know that he is the best of you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every prophet used to have a Hawari (i.e. disciple), and my Hawari is Az-Zubair bin Al-`Awwam (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu `Uthman:During one of the Ghazawat in which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was fighting, none remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) but Talha and Sa`d (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu `Uthman:During one of the Ghazawat in which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was fighting, none remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) but Talha and Sa`d (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais bin Abi Hazim:I saw Talha's paralyzed hand with which he had protected the Prophet (from an arrow) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d:On the day of the battle of Uhud the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned for me both his parents (i.e. saying, "Let my parents be sacrificed for you) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d:No doubt, (for some time) I stood for one-third of the Muslims (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:No man embraced Islam before the day on which I embraced Islam, and no doubt, I remained for seven days as one third of the then extant Muslims (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Aisha: The people of the Quraish tribe were worried about the Makhzumiya woman. They said. "Nobody dare speak to him (i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) ) except Usama bin Zaid as he is the most beloved to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usama bin Zaid: That the Prophet (ﷺ) used to take him (i.e. Usama) and Al-Hassan (in his lap) and say: "O Allah! Love them, as I love them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar from Hafsa his sister:That the Prophet (ﷺ) had said to her, "`Abdullah is a pious man (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar from Hafsa his sister:That the Prophet (ﷺ) had said to her, "`Abdullah is a pious man (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, " Every nation has an extremely trustworthy man, and the trustworthy man of this (i.e. Muslim) nation is Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to the people of Nijran, "I will send you the most trustworthy man." (Every one of) the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) was looking forward (to be that person). He then sent Abu 'Ubaida (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usama bin Zaid:That the Prophet (ﷺ) used to take him and Al-Hasan, and used to say, "O Allah! I love them, so please love them," or said something similar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) carrying Al-Hasan on his shoulder an saying, "O Allah! I love him, so please love him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:I saw Abu Bakr carrying Al-Hasan and saying, "Let my father be sacrificed for you; you resemble the Prophet and not `Ali," while `Ali was laughing at this (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Abu Bakr used to say, "Look after Muhammad (ﷺ) in (looking after) his family (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:None resembled the Prophet (ﷺ) more than Al-Hasan bin `Ali did (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:`Umar used to say, "Abu Bakr is our chief, and he manumitted our chief," meaning Bilal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais:Bilal said to Abu Bakr, "If you have bought me for yourself then keep me (for yourself), but if you have bought me for Allah's Sake, then leave me for Allah's Work (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) embraced me (pressed me to his chest) and said, "O Allah, teach him wisdom (i.e. the understanding of the knowledge of Qur'an) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:My brother and I came from Yemen, and for some time we continued to consider `Abdullah bin Mas`ud as one of the members of the family of the Prophet (ﷺ) because we used to see him and his mother going in the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) very often (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika:Somebody said to Ibn `Abbas, "Can you speak to the chief of the believers Mu`awiyah, as he does not pray except one rak`a as witr?" Ibn `Abbas replied, "He is a Faqih (i.e. a learned man who can give religious verdicts) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Humran bin Aban:Muawiya said (to the people), "You offer a prayer which we, who were the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering, and he forbade its offering," i.e. the two rak`at after the compulsory `Asr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Fatima is a part of me, and whoever makes her angry, makes me angry (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Salama:`Aisha said, "Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said (to me), 'O Aish (`Aisha)! This is Gabriel greeting you.' I said, 'Peace and Allah's Mercy and Blessings be on him, you see what I don't see' " She was addressing Allah 's Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The superiority of `Aisha over other women is like the superiority of Tharid to other meals (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad:Once `Aisha became sick and Ibn `Abbas went to see her and said, "O mother of the believers! You are leaving for truthful fore-runners i.e. for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham's father:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in his fatal illness, he started visiting his wives and saying, "Where will I be tomorrow?" He was anxious to be in `Aisha's home. `Aisha said, "So when it was my day, the Prophet became silent (no longer asked the question) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying (or the Prophet (ﷺ) said), "None loves the Ansar but a believer, and none hates them but a hypocrite. So Allah will love him who loves them, and He will hate him who hates them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The sign of Belief is to love the Ansar, and the sign of hypocrisy is to hate the Ansar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw the women and children (of the Ansar) coming forward. (The sub-narrator said, "I think that Anas said, 'They were returning from a wedding party.") The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up and said thrice, "By Allah! You are from the most beloved people to me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once an Ansari woman, accompanied by a son of hers, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) spoke to her and said twice, "By Him in Whose Hand my life is, you are the most beloved people to me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Al-Arqam:The Annwar said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Every prophet has his own followers and we have followed you. So will you invoke Allah to let our followers be considered from us (as Ansar too)?" So he invoked Allah accordingly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Usaid:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The best of the Ansar, or the best of the Ansar families (homes) are Banu An-Najjar, Bani `Abdul Ash-hal, Banu Al-Harith and Banu Sai'da (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to the Ansar, "After me you will see others given preference to you; so be patient till you meet me, and your promised place (of meeting) will be the Tank (i.e. Lake of Kauthar) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is no life except the life of the Hereafter; so, O Allah! Improve the state of the Ansar and the Muhajirun." And Anas added that the Prophet (ﷺ) also said, "O Allah! Forgive the Ansar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us while we were digging the trench and carrying out the earth on our backs. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) then said, "O Allah ! There is no life except the life of the Hereafter, so please forgive the Emigrants and the Ansar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Ansar are my near companions to whom I confided my private secrets, People will go on increasing but the Ansar will go on decreasing; so accept the good of the good-doers amongst them and excuse the wrong-doers amongst them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:A silken cloth was given as a present to the Prophet (ﷺ) . His companions started touching it and admiring its softness. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are you admiring its softness? The handkerchiefs of Sa`d bin Mu`adh (in Paradise) are better and softer than it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The Throne (of Allah) shook at the death of Sa`d bin Mu`adh." Through another group of narrators, Jabir added, "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) : saying, 'The Throne of the Beneficent shook because of the death of Sa`d bin Mu`adh (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Two men left the Prophet (ﷺ) on a very dark night. Suddenly a light came in front of them, and when they separated, the light also separated along with them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Learn the recitation of Qur'an from four persons: Ibn Mas`ud, Salim, the freed slave of Abu Hudhaifa, Ubai and Mu`adh bin Jabal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Ubai, "Allah has ordered me to recite to you: 'Those who disbelieve (Surat-al- Bayina 98).' " Ubai said, "Has He mentioned my name?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Yes." On hearing this, Ubai started weeping (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:Anas said, "The Qur'an was collected in the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) by four (men), all of whom were from the Ansar: Ubai, Mu`adh bin Jabal, Abu Zaid and Zaid bin Thabit." I asked Anas, "Who is Abu Zaid?" He said, "One of my uncles (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying (as below) Narrated `Ali: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best of the world's women is Mary (at her lifetime), and the best of the world's women is Khadija (at her lifetime) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Isma`il:I asked `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) give glad tidings to Khadija?" He said, "Yes, of a palace of Qasab (in Paradise) where there will be neither any noise nor any fatigue (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin 'Abdullah: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has never refused to admit me since I embraced Islam, and whenever he saw me, he would smile (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab's grand-father:In the pre-lslamic period of ignorance a flood of rain came and filled the valley in between the two mountains (around the Ka`ba) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anybody has to take an oath, he should swear only by Allah." The people of Quraish used to swear by their fathers, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear by your fathers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:The pagans used not to leave Jam' (i.e. Muzdalifa) till the sun had risen on Thabir mountain. The Prophet contradicted them by leaving (Muzdalifa) before the sun rose (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Husain:That `Ikrima said, "Kasan Dihaqa means glass full (of something) followed successively with other full glasses (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Ibn `Abbas said:"In the pre-lslamic period of ignorance I heard my father saying, "Provide us with Kasan Dihaqa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most true words said by a poet was the words of Labid." He said, Verily, Everything except Allah is perishable and Umaiya bin As-Salt was about to be a Muslim (but he did not embrace Islam) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ghailan bin Jarir:We used to visit Anas bin Malik and he used to talk to us about the Ansar, and used to say to me: "Your people did so-and-so on such-and-such a day, and your people did so-and-so on such-and-such a day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:To run along the valley between two green pillars of Safa and Marwa (mountains) was not Sunna, but the people in the pre-islamic period of ignorance used to run along it, and used to say: "We do not cross this rain stream except running strongly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin Maimun:During the pre-lslamic period of ignorance I saw a she-monkey surrounded by a number of monkeys. They were all stoning it, because it had committed illegal sexual intercourse. I too, stoned it along with them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was inspired Divinely at the age of forty. Then he stayed in Mecca for thirteen years, and then was ordered to migrate, and he migrated to Medina and stayed there for ten years and then died (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ammar bin Yasir:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , and the only converts (to Islam) with him, were five slaves, two women and Abu Bakr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq Saud bin Abi Waqqas:None embraced Islam, except on the day I embraced it. And for seven days I was one of the three persons who were Muslims (one-third of Islam) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman:"I asked Masruq, 'Who informed the Prophet (ﷺ) about the Jinns at the night when they heard the Qur'an?' He said, 'Your father `Abdullah informed me that a tree informed the Prophet (ﷺ) about them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mus'ud:We have been powerful since `Umar embraced Islam (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The people of Mecca asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to show them a miracle. So he showed them the moon split in two halves between which they saw the Hira' mountain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The moon was split ( into two pieces ) while we were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Mina. He said, "Be witnesses." Then a Piece of the moon went towards the mountain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the moon was split (into two places) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The moon was split (into two pieces) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Khalid bint Khalid:When I came from Ethiopia (to Medina), I was a young girl. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made me wear a sheet having marks on it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was rubbing those marks with his hands saying, "Sanah! Sanah!" (i.e. good, good) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:When Negus died, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Today a pious man has died. So get up and offer the funeral prayer for your brother Ashama (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led the funeral prayer for the Negus and made us stand in rows behind him and I was in the second or third row (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for Ashama, the Negus, with four Takbir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed them (i.e. his companions) of the death of Negus, the king of Ethiopia, on the very day on which the latter died, and said, "Ask Allah's Forgiveness for your brother (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Huraira further said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made them (i.e. the Muslims) stand in rows at the Musalla (i.e. praying place) and led the funeral prayer for the Negus and said four Takbir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I was present with my two maternal uncles at Al-`Aqaba (where the pledge of allegiance was given). (Ibn 'Uyaina said, "One of the two was Al-Bara' bin Marur) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:My father, my two maternal uncles and I were among those who took part in the 'Aqaba Pledge (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham's father:Khadija died three years before the Prophet (ﷺ) departed to Medina. He stayed there for two years or so and then he married `Aisha when she was a girl of six years of age, and he consumed that marriage when she was nine years old (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mujahid bin Jabir Al-Makki:`Abdullah bin `Umar used to say, "There is no more Hijrah (i.e. migration) after the Conquest of Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Sa`d said, "O Allah! You know that there is none against whom I am eager to fight more willingly for Your Cause than those people who disbelieved Your Apostle and drove him out (of his city). O Allah! I think that You have ended the fight between us and them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stayed in Mecca for thirteen years (after receiving the first Divine Inspiration) and died at the age of sixty-three (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Khabbab:We migrated with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (See Hadith No. 253 below) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Al-Bara added:I then went with Abu Bakr into his home (carrying that saddle) and there I saw his daughter `Aisha Lying in a bed because of heavy fever and I saw her father Abu Bakr kissing her cheek and saying, "How are you, little daughter? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:(the servant of the Prophet) When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived (at Medina), there was not a single companion of the Prophet (ﷺ) who had grey and black hair except Abu Bakr, and he dyed his hair with Henna' and Katam (i.e. plants used for dying hair) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Through another group of narrators, Anas bin Malik said: "When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Medina, the eldest amongst his companions was Abu Bakr. He dyed his hair with Hinna and Katam till it became of dark red color (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The first people who came to us (in Medina) were Mus`ab bin `Umar and Ibn Um Maktum. Then came to us `Ammar bin Yasir and Bilal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet's companions did not take as a starting date for the Muslim calendar, the day, the Prophet (ﷺ) had been sent as an Apostle or the day of his death, but the day of his arrival at Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Originally, two rak`at were prescribed in every prayer. When the Prophet (ﷺ) migrated (to Medina) four rak`at were enjoined, while the journey prayer remained unchanged(i.e. two rak`at) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Had only ten Jews (amongst their chiefs) believe me, all the Jews would definitely have believed me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:They, the people of the Scriptures, divided this Scripture into parts, believing in some portions of it and disbelieving the others. (See 15:) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salman Al-Farisi:That he was sold (as a slave) by one master to another for more than ten times (i.e between 13 and) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salman:I am from Ram-Hurmuz (i.e. a Persian town) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salman:The interval between Jesus and Muhammad was six hundred years (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The believers who failed to join the Ghazwa of Badr and those who took part in it are not equal (in reward) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:I and Ibn `Umar were considered too young to take part in the battle of Badr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:I and Ibn `Umar were considered too young (to take part) in the battle of Badr, and the number of the Emigrant warriors were over sixty (men) and the Ansar were over (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:We used to say that the warriors of Badr were over three-hundred-and-ten, as many as the Companions of Saul who crossed the river with him; and none crossed the river with him but a believer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah That he came across Abu Jahl while he was on the point of death on the day of:Badr. Abu Jahl said, "You should not be proud that you have killed me nor I am ashamed of being killed by my own folk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf:(the grandfather of Salih bin Ibrahim) the story of Badr, namely, the narration regarding the sons of 'Afra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:The following Holy Verse:-- "These two opponents (believers and disbelievers) dispute with each other about their Lord." (22.19) was revealed concerning us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais bin Ubad:I heard Abu Dhar swearing that these Holy Verses were revealed in connection with those six persons on the day of Badr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:A man asked Al-Bara' and I was listening, "Did `Ali take part in (the battle of) Badr?" Al-Bara' said, "(Yes). he even met (his enemies) in a duel and was clad in two armors (one over the other) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah: The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat-an-Najm and then prostrated himself, and all who were with him prostrated too. But an old man took a handful of dust and touched his forehead with it saying, "This is sufficient for me." Later on I saw him killed as an infidel (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham:That his father said, "The sword of Az-Zubair was decorated with silver." Hisham added, "The sword of `Urwa was (also) decorated with silver (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usaid:On the day of Badr, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "When the enemy comes near to you, shoot at them but use your arrows sparingly (so that your arrows should not be wasted) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Usaid:On the day of (the battle of) Badr, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to us, "When your enemy comes near to you (i.e. overcome you by sheer number), shoot at them but use your arrows sparingly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The good is what Allah gave us later on (after Uhud), and the reward of truthfulness is what Allah gave us after the day (of the battle) of Badr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi: Ibn 'Umar was once told that Said bin Zaid bin 'Amr bin Nufail, one of the Badr warriors, had fallen ill on a Friday. Ibn 'Umar rode to him late in the forenoon. The time of the Friday prayer approached and Ibn 'Umar did not take part in the Friday prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mu`adh:The one who asked (the Prophet) was Gabriel (refer to Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said on the day (of the battle) of Badr, "This is Gabriel holding the head of his horse and equipped with arms for the battle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Abu Zaid died and did not leave any offspring, and he was one of the Badr warriors (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:(who was one of the Badr warriors) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give me the pledge of allegiance (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Maqal:`Ali led the funeral prayer of Sahl bin Hunaif and said, "He was one of the warriors of Badr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Masud Al-Badri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man's spending on his family is a deed of charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Masud Al-Badri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "It is sufficient for one to recite the last two Verses of Surat-al-Baqara at night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi:That `Itban bin Malik who was one of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) and one of the warriors of Badr, came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Shihab:I asked Al-Husain bin Muhammad who was one of the sons of Salim and one of the nobles amongst them, about the narration of Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi 'from `Itban bin Malik, and he confirmed it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Shaddad bin Al-Had Al-Laithi:I saw Rifa`a bin Rafi` Al-Ansari who was a Badr warrior (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to kill all kinds of snakes until Abu Lubaba Al-Badri told him that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the killing of harmless snakes living in houses and called Jinan. So Ibn `Umar gave up killing them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to kill all kinds of snakes until Abu Lubaba Al-Badri told him that the Prophet (ﷺ) had forbidden the killing of harmless snakes living in houses and called Jinan. So Ibn `Umar gave up killing them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Some men of the Ansar requested Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to allow them to see him, they said, "Allow us to forgive the ransom of our sister's son, `Abbas." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, you will not leave a single Dirham of it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais:The Badr warriors were given five thousand (Dirhams) each, yearly. `Umar said, "I will surely give them more than what I will give to others (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Az-Zubair:On the day of Badr, (Quraishi) Emigrants received 100 shares of the war booty (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:I mentioned to Ibn `Abbas Surat-Hashr. He said, "Call it Surat-an-Nadir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Some people used to allot some date palm trees to the Prophet (ﷺ) as gift till he conquered Banu Quraiza and Bani An-Nadir, where upon he started returning their date palms to them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had the date-palm trees of Bani Al-Nadir burnt and cut down at a place called Al- Buwaira. Allah then revealed: "What you cut down of the date-palm trees (of the enemy) Or you left them standing on their stems. It was by Allah's Permission (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara bin Azib:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a group of persons to Abu Rafi`. `Abdullah bin Atik entered his house at night, while he was sleeping, and killed him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:On the day of Uhud. the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is Gabriel holding the head of his horse and equipped with war material (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:This Verse: "When two of your parties almost Decided to fall away..." was revealed in our connection, i.e. Bani Salama and Bani Haritha and I would not have liked that, if it was not revealed, for Allah said:-- But Allah was their Protector (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of the battle of Uhud accompanied by two men fighting on his behalf. They were dressed in white and were fighting as bravely as possible. I had never seen them before, nor did I see them later on (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:The Prophet (ﷺ) took out a quiver (of arrows) for me on the day of Uhud and said, "Throw (arrows); let my father and mother be sacrificed for you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned both his father and mother for me on the day of the battle of Uhud (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Al Musaiyab:Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned both his father and mother for me on the day of the battle of Uhud." He meant when the Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Sa`d) while the latter was fighting. "Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I have never heard the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning both his father and mother for anybody other than Sa`d (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I have never heard the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning his father and mother for anybody other than Sa`d bin Malik. I heard him saying on the day of Uhud, "O Sa`d throw (arrows)! Let my father and mother be sacrificed for you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mu'tamir's father:`Uthman said that on the day of the battle of Uhud, none remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) but Talha and Sa`d (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mu'tamir's father:`Uthman said that on the day of the battle of Uhud, none remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) but Talha and Sa`d (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Saib bin Yazid:I have been in the company of `AbdurRahman bin `Auf, Talha bin 'Ubaidullah, Al-Miqdad and Sa`d, and I heard none of them narrating anything from the Prophet (ﷺ) excepting the fact that I heard Talha narrating about the day of Uhud (battle) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais:I saw Talha's paralyzed hand with which he had protected the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of Uhud (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Talha (ra) said:I was amongst those who were overtaken by slumber until my sword fell from my hand on several occasions. The sword fell and I picked it up, and it fell again, and I picked it up (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Salim bin `Abdullah said' "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to invoke evil upon Safwan bin Umaiya, Suhail bin `Amr and Al-Harith bin Hisham. So the Verse was revealed:-- "Not for you (O Muhammad!)......(till the end of Verse) For they are indeed wrong-doers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (pointing to his broken canine tooth) said, "Allah's Wrath has become severe on the people who harmed His Prophet. Allah's Wrath has become severe on the man who is killed by the Apostle of Allah in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Wrath became severe on him whom the Prophet (ﷺ) had killed in Allah's Cause. Allah's Wrath became severe on the people who caused the face of Allah's Prophet to bleed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Wrath gets severe on a person killed by a prophet, and Allah's Wrath became severe on him who had caused the face of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to bleed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is a mountain that loves us and is loved by us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the mountain of Uhud appeared before Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) he said, "This IS a mountain that loves us and is loved by us. O, Allah! Abraham made Mecca a Sanctuary, and I have made Medina (i.e. the area between its two mountains) a Sanctuary as well (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The person who killed Khubaib was Abu Sarua (i.e. `Uqba bin Al-Harith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said Al-Qunut for one month after the posture of Bowing, invoking evil upon some 'Arab tribes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:That when Haram bin Milhan, his uncle was stabbed on the day of Bir Ma'una he sprinkled his blood over his face and his head this way and then said, "I have succeeded, by the Lord of the Ka`ba (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said Al-Qunut after Bowing (i.e. Ar-Ruku') for one month, invoking evil upon (the tribes of) Ril and Dhakwan. He used to say, "Usaiya disobeyed Allah and His Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been made victorious by As-Saba (i.e. an easterly wind) and the Ad nation was destroyed by Ad-Dabur (i.e. a westerly wind) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The first day (i.e. Ghazwa) I participated in, was the day of Al-Khandaq (i.e. Trench) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sulaiman bin Surd:On the day of Al-Ahzab (i.e. clans) the Prophet (ﷺ) said, (After this battle) we will go to attack them(i.e. the infidels) and they will not come to attack us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sulaiman bin Surd:When the clans were driven away, I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "From now onwards we will go to attack them (i.e. the infidels) and they will not come to attack us, but we will go to them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:On the day of Al-Khandaq (i.e. Trench), the Prophet (ﷺ) said '(Let) Allah fill their (i.e. the infidels') houses and graves with fire just as they have prevented us from offering the Middle Prayer (i.e. `Asr prayer) till the sun had set (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say, "None has the right to be worshipped except Allah Alone (Who) honored His Warriors and made His Slave victorious, and He (Alone) defeated the (infidel) clans; so there is nothing after Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) invoked evil upon the clans saying, "Allah, the Revealer of the Holy Book (i.e. the Qur'an), the Quick Taker of the accounts! Please defeat the clans. O Allah! Defeat them and shake them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:As if I am just now looking at the dust rising in the street of Banu Ghanm (in Medina) because of the marching of Gabriel's regiment when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) set out to Banu Quraiza (to attack them) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Al-Bara' bin `Azib said (through another chain of sub-narrators):"On the day of Quraiza's (siege), Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Hassan bin Thabit, 'Abuse them (with your poems), and Jibril is with you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Abdullah (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) led his Companions in the Fear Prayer in the seventh Ghazwa i.e. the Ghazwa of Dhat-ur-Riqa. Ibn Abbas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Fear Prayer at a place called Dhi-Qarad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Jabir said that the Prophet (ﷺ) led the people in the Fear Prayer on the day of Muharib and Tha'laba (i.e. the day of the battle of Dhat-ur-Riqa) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Az-Zubair:Jabir said, "We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) at Nakhl," and then he mentioned the Fear prayer. Narrated Al-Qasim bin Muhammad: The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the Fear prayer in the Ghazwa of Banu Anmar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I took part in a Ghazwa towards Najd along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we clashed with the enemy, and we lined up for them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sinan and Abu Salama:Jabir mentioned that he had participated in a Ghazwa towards Najd in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Jabir added, "We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) at Nakhl and he offered the Fear prayer." Abu Huraira said, "I offered the Fear prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) during the Ghazwa (i.e. the battle) of Najd." Abu Huraira came to the Prophet (ﷺ) during the day of Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah Al-Ansari:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) offering his Nawafil prayer on his Mount facing the East during the Ghazwa of Anmar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi Malaika:`Aisha used to recite this Verse:-- 'Ida taliqunahu bi-alsinatikum' (24.15) "(As you tell lie with your tongues.)" and used to say "Al-Walaq" means "telling of a lie. "She knew this Verse more than anybody else as it was revealed about her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:We set out with the Prophet (ﷺ) in the year of Al-Hudaibiya, and all his companions assumed the state of Ihram but I did not (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa said, "The people (who gave the Pledge of allegiance) under the Tree numbered 1300 and the number of Bani Aslam was 1/8 of the Emigrants (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mirdas Al-Aslami:Who was among those (who had given the Pledge of allegiance) under the Tree: Pious people will die in succession, and there will remain the dregs of society who will be like the useless residues of dates and barley and Allah will pay no attention to them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Marwan and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out in the company of 1300 to 1500 of his companions in the year of Al-Hudaibiya, and when they reached Dhul-Hulaifa, he garlanded and marked his Hadi and assumed the state of Ihram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Marwan and Al-Miswar bin Makhrama:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out in the company of 1300 to 1500 of his companions in the year of Al-Hudaibiya, and when they reached Dhul-Hulaifa, he garlanded and marked his Hadi and assumed the state of Ihram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:That his father said, "I saw the Tree (of the Ar-Ridwan Pledge of allegiance and when I returned to it later, I was not able to recognize it. (The sub--narrator MahmiJd said, Al-Musaiyab said, 'Then; forgot it (i.e., the Tree) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab:That his father was amongst those who had given the Pledge of allegiance (to the Prophet (ﷺ) ) beneath the Tree, and the next year when they went towards the Tree, they were not able to recognize it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Tariq:(The tree where the Ridwan Pledge of allegiance was taken by the Prophet) was mentioned before Sa`id bin Al-Musaiyab. On that he smiled and said, "My father informed me (about it) and he had witnessed it (i.e. the Pledge) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Yazid bin Abi Ubaid:I said to Salama bin Al-Akwa`, "For what did you give the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the day of Al-Hudaibiya?" He replied, "For death (in the Cause of Islam) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qilaba:that Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak had informed him that he was one of those who had given the Pledge of allegiance (of Al-Hudaibiya) beneath the Tree (from eng-bukhari.txt)
The same narration was told by Majzaa from a man called Uhban bin Aus who was one of those who had witnessed (the Pledge of allegiance beneath) the Tree., and who had some trouble in his knee so that while doing prostrations, he used to put a pillow underneath his knee (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Suwaid bin An-Nu`man:who was one of those who witnessed (the Pledge of allegiance beneath) the Tree: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and his companions were given Sawiq and they chewed it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar set out for Umra during the period of afflictions, and he said, "If I should be stopped from visiting the Ka`ba, I will do what we did when we were with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." He assumed Ihram for `Umra in the year of Al-Hudaibiya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz bin Suhaib:Anas bin Malik said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) took Safiya as a captive. He manumitted her and married her." Thabit asked Anas, "What did he give her as Mahr (i.e. marriage gift)?" Anas replied. "Her Mahr was herself, for he manumitted her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
narration about the chain of narrators (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu `Imran:Anas looked at the people wearing Tailsans (i.e. a special kind of head covering worn by Jews in old days). On that Anas said, "At this moment they (i.e. those people) look like the Jews of Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed with Safiya bint Huyai for three days on the way of Khaibar where he consummated his marriage with her. Safiya was amongst those who were ordered to use a veil (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:While we were besieging Khaibar, a person threw a leather container containing some fat and I ran to take it. Suddenly I looked behind, and behold! The Prophet (ﷺ) was there. So I felt shy (to take it then) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:On the day of Khaiber, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of garlic and the meat of donkeys (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib:On the day of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the Mut'a (i.e. temporary marriage) and the eating of donkey-meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:On the day of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of donkey meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of donkey-meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the day of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of donkey meat and allowed the eating of horse meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara and `Abdullah bin Abl `Aufa:That when they were in the company of the Prophet, they got some donkeys which they (slaughtered and) cooked. Then the announcer of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Turn the cooking pots upside down (i.e. throw out the meat) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara and `Abdullah bin Abl `Aufa:That when they were in the company of the Prophet, they got some donkeys which they (slaughtered and) cooked. Then the announcer of the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Turn the cooking pots upside down (i.e. throw out the meat) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' and Ibn Abi `Aufa:On the day of Khaibar when the cooking pots were put on the fire, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Turn the cooking pots upside down (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' and Ibn Abi `Aufa:On the day of Khaibar when the cooking pots were put on the fire, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Turn the cooking pots upside down (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:We took part in a Ghazwa with the Prophet (same as Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara Bin Azib:During the Ghazwa of Khaibar, the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to throw away the meat of the donkeys whether it was still raw or cooked. He did not allow us to eat it later on (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I do not know whether the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the eating of donkey-meat (temporarily) because they were the beasts of burden for the people, and he disliked that their means of transportation should be lost, or he forbade it on the day of Khaibar permanently (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:We came upon the Prophet (ﷺ) after he had conquered Khaibar. He then gave us a share (from the booty), but apart from us he did not give to anybody else who did not attend the Conquest (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:But for the other Muslims (i.e. coming generations) I would divide (the land of) whatever villages the Muslims might conquer (among the fighters), as the Prophet (ﷺ) divided (the land of) Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When Khaibar was conquered, we said, "Now we will eat our fill of dates (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:We did not eat our fill except after we had conquered Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Sa`id and Abu Huraira said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) made the brother of Bani Adi from the Ansar as the ruler of Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Sa`id and Abu Huraira said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) made the brother of Bani Adi from the Ansar as the ruler of Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) gave (the land of) Khaibar to the Jews (of Khaibar) on condition that they would work on it and cultivate it and they would have half of its yield (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:When Khaibar was conquered, a (cooked) sheep containing poison, was given as a present to Allah's Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) performed the `Umra (which he performed in the year following the treaty of Al-Hudaibiya) we were screening Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) from the infidels and their boys lest they should harm him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) married Maimuna while he was in the state of lhram but he consummated that marriage after finishing that state. Maimuna died at Saraf (i.e. a place near Mecca) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Ibn `Abbas added:The Prophet married Maimuna during the `Umrat-al-Qada' (i.e. the `Umra performed in lieu of the `Umra which the Prophet (ﷺ) could not perform because the pagans, prevented him to perform that `Umra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar informed me that on the day (of Mu'tah) he stood beside Ja`far who was dead (i.e. killed in the battle), and he counted fifty wounds in his body, caused by stabs or strokes, and none of those wounds was in his back (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Amir:Whenever Ibn `Umar greeted the son of Ja`far, he used to say (to him), "Assalam 'Alaika (i.e. peace be on you) O the son of two-winged person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Khalid bin Al-Walid:On the day (of the battle of) Mu'tah, nine swords were broken in my hand, and nothing was left in my hand except a Yemenite sword of mine (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Khalid bin Al-Walid:On the day of Mu'tah, nine swords were broken in my hand and only a Yemenite sword of mine remained in my hand (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ash Shabi:An Nu`man bin Bashir said, "Abdullah bin Rawaha fell down unconscious.." (and mentioned the above Hadith adding, "Thereupon, when he died she (i.e. his sister) did not weep over him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:I fought in seven Ghazwat (i.e. battles) along with the Prophet (ﷺ) and fought in nine battles, fought by armies dispatched by the Prophet. Once Abu Bakr was our commander and at another time, Usama was our commander (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama (in another narration):I fought seven Ghazwat (i.e. battles) along with the Prophet (ﷺ) and also fought in nine battles, fought by armies sent by the Prophet (ﷺ) . Once Abu Bakr was our commander and another time, Usama was (our commander) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama bin Al-Akwa`:I fought in nine Ghazwa-t along with the Prophet, I also fought along with Ibn Haritha when the Prophet made him our commander (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Yazid bin Abi Ubaid:Salama bin Al-Akwa` said, "I fought in seven Ghazwat along with the Prophet." He then mentioned Khaibar, Al-Hudaibiya, the day (i.e. battle) of Hunain and the day of Al-Qurad. I forgot the names of the other Ghazwat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Ibn `Abbas added:"The Prophet (ﷺ) went (to Hunain) in the year of the Conquest (of Mecca) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah makes us victorious, our encamping place will be Al-Khaif, the place where the infidels took an oath to be loyal to Heathenism (by boycotting Banu Hashim, the Prophet's folk) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) intended to carry on the Ghazwa of Hunain, he said, "Tomorrow, if Allah wished, our encamping) plaice will be Khaif Bani Kinana where (the infidels) took an oath to be loyal to Heathenism (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:When the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca on the day of the Conquest, there were 360 idols around the Ka`ba. The Prophet (ﷺ) started striking them with a stick he had in his hand and was saying, "Truth has come and Falsehood will neither start nor will it reappear (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:During the year of the Conquest (of Mecca), the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca through Kada which was at the upper part of Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham's father:During the year of the Conquest (of Mecca), the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca through its upper part through Kada (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say in his bowings and prostrations, "Subhanaka Allahumma Rabbanã wa bihamdika, Allãhumma ighfirli" (Glorified be You, O Allah, our Lord! All the praises are for You. O Allah, forgive me) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying in the year of the Conquest (of Mecca) while he was in Mecca, "Allah and His Apostle have made the selling of wine (i.e. alcoholic drinks) unlawful (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:We stayed (in Mecca) for ten days along with the Prophet (ﷺ) and used to offer shortened prayers (i.e. journey prayers) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed in Mecca for 19 days during which he prayed 2 rak`at in each prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Tha`laba bin Su`air whose face was rubbed by the Prophet during the year of the Conquest (of Makkah) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Az-Zuhri:While we were in the company of the Ibn Al-Musaiyab, Sunain Abi Jamila informed us (a Hadith), Abu Jamila said that he lived during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) and that he had accompanied him ( to Mecca) during the year of the Conquest (of Mecca) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mujashi bin Masud:I took Abu Mabad to the Prophet (ﷺ) in order that he might give him the pledge of allegiance for migration. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Migration has gone to its people, but I take the pledge from him (i.e. Abu Mabad) for Islam and Jihad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mujashi bin Masud:I took Abu Mabad to the Prophet (ﷺ) in order that he might give him the pledge of allegiance for migration. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Migration has gone to its people, but I take the pledge from him (i.e. Abu Mabad) for Islam and Jihad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mujahid:I said to Ibn `Umar, "I want to migrate to Sham." He said, "There is no migration, but Jihad (for Allah's Cause). Go and offer yourself for Jihad, and if you find an opportunity for Jihad (stay there) otherwise, come back (from eng-bukhari.txt)
(In an other narration) Ibn `Umar said:"There is no migration today or after Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." (and completed his statement as above) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mujahid bin Jabr:`Abdullah bin `Umar used to say, "There is no migration after the Conquest (of Mecca) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Isma`il:I saw (a healed scar of) blow over the hand of Ibn Abi `Aufa who said, "I received that blow in the battle of Hunain in the company of the Prophet." I said, "Did you take part in the battle of Hunain?" He replied, "Yes (and in other battles) before it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:When we returned from (the battle of) Hunain, `Umar asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about a vow which he had made during the Pre-lslamic period of Ignorance that he would perform I`tikaf. The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to fulfill his vow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) sent a Sariya towards Najd and I was in it, and our share from the booty amounted to twelve camels each, and we were given an additional camel each. So we returned with thirteen camels each (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The first Friday (i.e. Jumua) prayer offered after the Friday Prayer offered at the Mosque of Allah's Apostle was offered at the mosque of `Abdul Qais situated at Jawathi, that is a village at Al Bahrain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Every nation has an Amin (i.e. the most honest man), and the Amin of this nation is Abu 'Ubaida bin Al-Jarrah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:My brother and I came from Yemen (to Medina) and remained for some time, thinking that Ibn Masud and his mother belonged to the family of the Prophet (ﷺ) because of their frequent entrance (upon the Prophet) and their being attached to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Belief is Yemenite while afflictions appear from there (the east) from where the side of the head of Satan will appear (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people of Yemen have come to you, and they are more soft hearted and gentle hearted people. The capacity for understanding religion is Yemenite and Wisdom is Yemenite (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Tufail bin `Amr came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "The Daus (nation) have perished as they disobeyed and refused to accept Islam. So invoke Allah against them." But the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Give guidance to the Daus (tribe) and bring them (to Islam) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam:The Prophet (ﷺ) fought nineteen Ghazwas and performed only one Hajj after he migrated (to Medina), and did not perform another Hajj after it, and that was Hajj-ul-Wada`,' Abu 'Is-haq said, "He performed when he was in Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me during Hajjatul-Wada`. "Ask the people to listen." He then said, "Do not become infidels after me by cutting the necks (throats) of one another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) got his head shaved during Hajjat-ul-Wada (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:During Hajjat-ul-Wada`, the Prophet (ﷺ) and some of his companions got their heads shaved while some of his companions got their head-hair cut short (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham's father:In my presence, Usama was asked about the speed of the Prophet (ﷺ) during his Hajj. He replied, "It was Al-`Anaq (i.e. moderate easy speed) and if he encountered an open space, he used to increase his speed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Yazid Al-Khatmi:That Abu Aiyub informed him that he offered the Maghrib and `Isha' prayers together with the Prophet during Hajjat-ul-Wada (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to his companions who were at Al-Hijr, "Do not enter upon these people who are being punished, except in a weeping state, lest the same calamity as of theirs should befall you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Humaid:We returned in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) from the Ghazwa of Tabuk, and when we looked upon Medina, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This is Taba (i.e. Medina), and this is Uhud, a mountain that loves us and is loved by us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:I remember that I went out with the boys to (the place called) Thaniyat-ul-Wada` to receive Allah's Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Saib:I remember I went out with the boys to Thaniyat-ul-Wada` to receive the Prophet (ﷺ) when he returned from the Ghazwa of Tabuk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha: The Prophet (ﷺ) in his ailment in which he died, used to say, "O `Aisha! I still feel the pain caused by the food I ate at Khaibar, and at this time, I feel as if my aorta is being cut from that poison (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Al-Fadl bint Al-Harith:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surat-al-Mursalat `Urfan (77) in the Maghrib prayer, and after that prayer he did not lead us in any prayer till he died (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) fell ill in his fatal illness, he started saying, "With the highest companion (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) and listened to him before his death while he was leaning his back on me and saying, "O Allah! Forgive me, and bestow Your Mercy on me, and let me meet the (highest) companions (of the Hereafter)." (See the Qur'an (4:69) and Hadith (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) died while he was between my chest and chin, so I never dislike the death agony for anyone after the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:Abu Bakr kissed the Prophet (ﷺ) after his death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:Abu Bakr kissed the Prophet (ﷺ) after his death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:Abu Bakr kissed the Prophet (ﷺ) after his death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Amir bin Al-Harith:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not leave a Dinar or a Dirham or a male or a female slave. He left only his white mule on which he used to ride, and his weapons, and a piece of land which he gave in charity for the needy travelers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed for ten years in Mecca with the Qur'an being revealed to him and he stayed in Medina for ten years (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed for ten years in Mecca with the Qur'an being revealed to him and he stayed in Medina for ten years (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah 's Apostle died when he was sixty-three years of age (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) died while his armor was mortgaged to a Jew for thirty Sa's of barley (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:I asked Zaid bin Al-Arqam, "In how many Ghazawat did you take part in the company of Allah's Apostle?" He replied, "Seventeen." I further asked, "How many Ghazawat did the Prophet (ﷺ) fight?" He replied, "Nineteen (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:I fought fifteen Ghazawat in the company of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Buraida:That he fought sixteen Ghazawat with Allah''s Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Kam'a (i.e. a kind of edible fungus) is like the Manna (in that it is obtained without effort) and its water is a (medicine) cure for eye trouble (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:None remains of those who prayed facing both Qiblas (that is, Jerusalem and Mecca) except myself (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The prescribed Law of Allah is the equality in punishment (i.e. Al-Qisas)." (In cases of murders, etc) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The people used to fast on the day of 'Ashura' before fasting in Ramadan was prescribed but when (the order of compulsory fasting in) Ramadan was revealed, it was up to one to fast on it (i.e. 'Ashura') or not (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar recited: "They had a choice, either fast or feed a poor for every day.." and added, "This Verse is abrogated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama:When the Divine Revelation: "For those who can fast, they had a choice either fast, or feed a poor for every day," (2.184) was revealed, it was permissible for one to give a ransom and give up fasting, till the Verse succeeding it was revealed and abrogated it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Wail:Hudhaifa said, "The Verse:-- "And spend (of your wealth) in the Cause of Allah and do not throw yourselves in destruction," (2.195) was revealed concerning spending in Allah's Cause (i.e. Jihad) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! Our Lord! Give us in this world that, which is good and in the Hereafter that, which is good and save us from the torment of the Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most hated man in the Sight of Allah is the one who is the most quarrelsome (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Jews used to say: "If one has sexual intercourse with his wife from the back, then she will deliver a squint-eyed child." So this Verse was revealed:-- "Your wives are a tilth unto you; so go to your tilth when or how you will (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali (through two chains):On the day of Al-Khandaq (the battle of the Trench). the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They (i.e. pagans prevented us from offering the middle (the Best) Prayer till the sun had set. May Allah fill their graves, their houses (or their bodies) with fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We have more right to be in doubt than Abraham when he said, 'My Lord! Show me how You give life to the dead.' He said, 'Do you not believe?' He said, 'Yes (I believe) but to be stronger in Faith (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the Verses of Surat-al-Baqara regarding usury (i.e. Riba) were revealed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) recited them before the people and then he prohibited the trade of alcoholic liquors (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the last Verses of Surat-al-Baqara were revealed. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out and recited them in the Mosque and prohibited the trade of alcoholic liquors (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the last Verses of Surat-al-Baqara were revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) read them in the Mosque and prohibited the trade of alcoholic liquors (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the last Verses of Surat-al-Baqara were revealed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood up and recited them before us and then prohibited the trade of alcoholic liquors (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The last Verse (in the Qur'an) revealed to the Prophet (ﷺ) was the Verse dealing with usury (i.e. Riba) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:This Verse:--"Whether you show what is in your minds or conceal it.." (2.284) was abrogated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Marwan Al-Asghar:A man from the companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who I think, was Ibn `Umar said, "The Verse:-- "Whether you show what is in your minds or conceal it...." was abrogated by the Verse following it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Abu Talha distributed the garden between Hassan and Ubai, but he did not give me anything thereof although I was a nearer relative to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Verse:--"You (true Muslims) are the best of peoples ever raised up for mankind." means, the best of peoples for the people, as you bring them with chains on their necks till they embrace Islam (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Talha:Slumber overtook us during the battle of Uhud while we were in the front files. My sword would fall from my hand and I would pick it up, and again it would fall down and I would pick it up again (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The last statement of Abraham when he was thrown into the fire was:--"Allah is Sufficient for us and He is the Best Disposer (of affairs for us) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ikrama:Ibn `Abbas said ( regarding the verse), "And when the relatives and the orphans and the poor are present at the time of division, "this verse and its order is valid and not abrogated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Verse: "Obey Allah and Obey the Apostle and those of you (Muslims) who are in authority." (4.59) was revealed in connection with `Abdullah bin Hudhafa bin Qais bin `Adi' when the Prophet (ﷺ) appointed him as the commander of a Sariyya (army detachment) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:My mother and I were among the weak and oppressed (Muslims at Mecca) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika:Ibn `Abbas recited:-- "Except the weak ones among men women and children," (4.98) and said, "My mother and I were among those whom Allah had excused (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Not equal are those believers who sat (at home) and did not join the Badr battle and those who joined the Badr battle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:'"Except the weak ones" (4.98) and added: My mother was one of those whom Allah excused (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Regarding the Verse: "Because of the inconvenience of rain or because you are ill." (4.102) (It was revealed in connection with) `Abdur-Rahman bin `Auf who was wounded (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None has the right to say that I am better than Jonah bin Matta (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever says that I am better than Jonah bin Matta, is a liar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The last Sura that was revealed was Bara'a, and the last Verse that was revealed was: "They ask you for a legal verdict, Say: Allah's directs (thus) about those who leave no descendants or ascendants as heirs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Whoever tells that Muhammad concealed part of what was revealed to him, is a liar, for Allah says:-- "O Apostle (Muhammad)! Proclaim (the Message) which has been sent down to you from your Lord (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:This Verse: "Allah will not punish you for what is unintentional in your oaths." (5.89) was revealed about a man's state men (during his talk), "No, by Allah," and "Yes, by Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:(The Verse of) prohibiting alcoholic drinks was revealed when there were in Medina five kinds of (alcoholic) drinks none of which was produced from grapes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Some people drank alcoholic beverages in the morning (of the day) of the Uhud battle and on the same day they were killed as martyrs, and that was before wine was prohibited (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I saw Hell and its different portions were consuming each other and saw `Amr dragging his intestines (in it), and he was the first person to establish the tradition of letting animals loose (for the idols) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:When:"...and confuse not their belief with wrong." (6.82) was revealed, the Prophet's companions said, "Which of us has not done wrong?" Then there was revealed:-- "Verily joining others in worship with Allah is a tremendous wrong indeed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody has the rights to say that I am better than Jonah bin Matta (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Nobody has the right to say that I am better than Jonah bin Matta (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah curse the Jews! When Allah forbade them to eat the fat of animals, they melted it and sold it, and utilized its price (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None has more sense of ghaira than Allah, and for this He has forbidden shameful sins whether committed openly or secretly, and none loves to be praised more than Allah does, and this is why He Praises Himself (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id Ibn Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Al-Kam'a is like the Mann (sweet resin or gum) (in that it grows naturally without human care) and its water is a cure for the eye diseases (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin AzZubair:(The Verse) "Hold to forgiveness; command what is right..." was revealed by Allah except in connection with the character of the people (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abdullah bin Az-Zubair said:Allah ordered His Prophet to forgive the people their misbehavior (towards him) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:I asked Ibn `Abbas regarding Surat-al-Anfal. He said, "It was revealed in connection with the Battle of Badr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Regarding the Verse: "Verily! The worst of beasts in the Sight of Allah are the deaf and the dumb---- those who understand not." (8.22) (The people referred to here) were some persons from the tribe of Bani `Abd-Addar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The last Verse that was revealed was: 'They ask you for a legal verdict: Say: Allah directs (thus) about Al-Kalalah (those who leave no descendants or ascendants as heirs).' And the last Sura which was revealed was Baraatun (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Kanz (money, the Zakat of which is not paid) of anyone of you will appear in the form of bald-headed poisonous male snake on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Khãlid bin Aslam:We went out with 'Abdullãh bin 'Umar and he said, "This (Verse) was revealed before the prescription of Zakat, and when Zakãt was prescribed, Allah made it a means of purifying one's wealth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakr:I was in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the cave, and on seeing the traces of the pagans, I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) If one of them (pagans) should lift up his foot, he will see us." He said, "What do you think of two, the third of whom is Allah? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr:Ibn `Abbas recited:-- "No doubt! They fold up their breasts in order to hide from Him. Surely! Even when they cover themselves with their garments (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The honorable, the son of the honorable the son of the honorable, i.e. Joseph, the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Wail:`Abdullah bin Mas`ud recited "Haita laka (Come you)," and added, "We recite it as we were taught it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Urwa:"I told her (`Aisha): (Regarding the above narration), they (Apostles) were betrayed (by Allah)." She said: Allah forbid or said similarly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ata:When Ibn `Abbas heard:-- "Have you not seen those who have changed the favor of Allah into disbelief?" (14.28) he said, "Those were the disbelieving pagans of Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Um (substance) of the Qur'an is the seven oft-repeated verses (Al- Mathaini) and is the Great Qur'an (i.e. Surat-al-Fatiha) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Those who have made their Scripture into parts are the people of the Scripture who divided it into portions and believed in a part of it and disbelieved the other (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas concerning:"As We have sent down (the Scripture) on those who are divided (Jews and Christians)." (15.90) They believed in part of it and disbelieved in the other, (and they) are the Jews and the Christians (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to invoke thus: "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from miserliness, laziness; from old geriatric age the punishment in the grave; from the affliction of Ad-Dajjal; and from the afflictions of life and death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:Surat Bani Israel and Al-Kahf and Mary are among my first old property (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:During the Pre-lslamic period of ignorance if any tribe became great in number, we used to say, "Amira the children of so-and-so." Narrated Al-Humaidi: Sufyan narrated to us something and used the word 'Amira (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The recitation of Psalms (David's Qur'an) was made light and easy for David that he used to have his ridding animal be saddled while he would finish the recitation before the servant had saddled it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The (above) verse was revealed in connection with the invocations (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, a huge fat man will come who will not weigh, the weight of the wing of a mosquito in Allah's Sight." and then the Prophet (ﷺ) added, 'We shall not give them any weight on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Gabriel, "What prevents you from visiting us more often than you visit us now?" So there was revealed:-- 'And we (angels) descend not but by the command of your Lord. To Him belongs what is before us and what is behind us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Suras of Bani Israel, Al-Kahf, Mariyam, Taha and Al-Anbiya are from the very old Suras which I learnt by heart, and they are my first property (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:And as for him among them who had the greater share..' (24.11) was `Abdullah bin Ubai bin Salul (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Ruman:Aisha's mother, When `Aisha was accused, she fell down Unconscious (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaika:I heard `Aisha reciting: "When you invented a lie (and carry it) on your tongues (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Qasim:Ibn `Abbas asked `Aisha's permission to enter. Al-Qasim then narrated the whole Hadith (as in 277) but did not mention: "Would that I had been forgotten and out of sight (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Safiya bint Shaiba:`Aisha used to say: "When (the Verse): "They should draw their veils over their necks and bosoms," was revealed, (the ladies) cut their waist sheets at the edges and covered their heads and faces with those cut pieces of cloth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:The people of Kufa differed as regards the killing of a believer so I entered upon Ibn `Abbas (and asked him) about that. Ibn `Abbas said, "The Verse (in Surat-An-Nisa', 4:93) was the last thing revealed in this respect and nothing cancelled its validity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Five (great events) have passed: the Smoke, the Moon, the Romans, the Mighty grasp and the constant Punishment which occurs in 'So the torment will be yours forever (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection Abraham will see his father covered with Qatara and Ghabara. (i.e. having a dark face) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Qur'an 28.85'...will bring you home' means to Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The keys of the Unseen are five." And then he recited: 'Verily, the knowledge of the Hour is with Allah (alone) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:We used not to call Zaid bin Haritha the freed slave of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) except Zaid bin Muhammad till the Qu'anic Verse was revealed: "Call them (adopted sons) by (the names of) their fathers. That is more than just in the Sight of Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:We think that the Verse: 'Among the Believers are men who have been true to their covenant with Allah.' was revealed in favor of Anas bin An-Nadir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Verse: 'But you did hide in your mind that which Allah was about to make manifest.' (33.37) was revealed concerning Zainab bint Jahsh and Zaid bin Haritha (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Good and bad persons enter upon you, so I suggest that you order the mothers of the Believers (i.e. your wives) to observe veils." Then Allah revealed the Verses of Al- Hijab (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ka`b bin Ujra:It was said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! We know how to greet you, but how to invoke Allah for you?" The Prophet said, "Say: Allahumma salli ala Muhammadin wa'ala `Ali Muhammaddin, kama sallaita 'ala all Ibrahim, innaka Hamidun Majid (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Moses was a shy man, and that is what the Statement of Allah means: 'O you who believe Be not like those who annoyed Moses, but Allah proved his innocence of that which they alleged and he was honorable in Allah's Sight (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Nobody has the right to be better than (Jonah) bin Matta (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who says that I am better than Jonah bin Matta, tells a lie (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Allah will hold the whole earth, and roll all the heavens up in His Right Hand, and then He will say, 'I am the King; where are the kings of the earth? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I will be the first to raise my head after the second blowing of the trumpet and will see Moses hanging the Throne, and I will not know whether he had been in that state all the time or after the blowing of the trumpet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ya`la:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting when on the pulpit: 'They will cry, "O Malik (Keeper of Hell) Let your Lord make an end of us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Five things have passed, i.e. the smoke, the defeat of the Romans, the splitting of the moon, Al-Batsha (the defeat of the infidels in the battle of Badr) and Al-Lizam (the punishment) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Five things have passed: Al-Lizam, the defeat of the Romans, the mighty grasp, the splitting of the moon, and the smoke (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'The son of Adam hurts me for he abuses Time though I am Time: in My Hands are all things, and I cause the revolution of day and night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:(As above, No. 354, but added) Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite if you wish: "Would you then (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muawiya bin Abi Al-Muzarrad:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), said, "Recite if you wish: Would you then if you were given the authority (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:"Verily, We have given you (O Muhammad) a manifest victory.' refers to Al-Hudaibiya Peace treaty (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:On the Day of the Conquest of Mecca, the Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat Al-Fath in a vibrating and pleasant voice. (Muawaiya, the subnarrator said, "If I could imitate the recitation of the Prophet (ﷺ) I would do so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer night prayers till his feet became swollen. Somebody said, to him," "Allah has forgiven you, your faults of the past and those to follow." On that, he said, "Shouldn't I be a thankful slave of Allah)? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:We were one thousand and four hundred on the Day of Al-Hudaibiya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin Sahban:`Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani who was one of those who witnessed (the event of) the tree, said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the throwing of small stones (with two fingers) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abdullah bin Al-Mughaffal Al-Muzani also said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) also forbade urinating at the place where one takes a bath (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak:who was one of the companions of the tree (those who swore allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) beneath the tree at Al-Hudaibiya): (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people will be thrown into the (Hell) Fire and it will say: "Are there any more (to come)?' (50.30) till Allah puts His Foot over it and it will say, 'Qati! Qati! (Enough Enough) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:(that the Prophet (ﷺ) said) "It will be said to the Hell, 'Are you filled?' It will say, 'Are there any more (to come)?' On that Allah will put His Foot on it, and it will say 'Qati! Qati! (Enough! Enough) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mujahid:Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah ordered His Prophet to celebrate Allah's praises after all prayers." He refers to His Statement: 'After the prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:(regarding the revelation) Truly he (Muhammad) did see of the signs of his Lord; the Greatest!' (53.18) The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a green screen covering the horizon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(regarding His Statement about the Lat and the `Uzza: Lat was originally a man who used to mix Sawiq for the pilgrim) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whomever takes an oath in which he mentions Lat and `Uzza (forgetfully), should say: None has the right to be worshipped but Allah, and whoever says to his companion. 'Come along, let us gamble' must give alms (as an expiation) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) performed a prostration when he finished reciting Surat-an-Najm, and all the Muslims and pagans and Jinns and human beings prostrated along with him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Masud:During the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the moon was split into two parts; one part remained over the mountain, and the other part went beyond the mountain. On that, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Witness this miracle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The moon was cleft asunder while we were in the company of the Prophet, and it became two parts. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, Witness, witness (this miracle) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The moon was cleft asunder during the lifetime of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The people of Mecca asked the Prophet (ﷺ) to show them a sign (miracle). So he showed them (the miracle) of the cleaving of the moon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The moon was cleft asunder into two parts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite: "Fahal-min-Maddakir (then is there any that will receive admonition?) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite: "Fahal-min-Maddakir (then is there any that will receive admonition?) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:A man asked Al-Aswad, 'is it 'Fahal min-Muddakir' or'..Mudhdhakir?" Al Aswad replied, 'I have heard `Abdullah bin Masud reciting it, 'Fahal-min Muddakir'; I too, heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting it 'Fahal-min-Muddakir' with 'd (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite: "Fahal-min-Maddakir (then is there any that will receive admonition?) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited: 'Fahal-min Muddakir': 'And verily, We have destroyed nations like unto you; then is there any that will receive admonition? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:I recited before the Prophet (ﷺ) 'Fahal-min-Mudhdhakir'. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is Fahal-min Muddakir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "In Paradise there is a tree which is so big that a rider can travel in its shade for one hundred years without passing it; and if you wish, you can recite: 'In shade long extended (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id:I asked Ibn `Abbas about Surat Al-Hashr. He replied, "Say Surat An-Nadir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah (bin Mus'ud):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has cursed the lady who uses false hair (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Regarding the saying of Allah: 'And they will not disobey you in any just matter.' (60.12) That was one of the conditions which Allah imposed on The believing) women (who came to take the oath of allegiance to the Prophet) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said. Then some men from these people would attain it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
See hadith (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:If someone says to his wife, "You are unlawful to me." he must make an expiation (for his oath). Ibn `Abbas added: There is for you in Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), an excellent example to follow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I intended to ask `Umar so I said, "Who were those two ladies who tried to back each other against the Prophet?" I hardly finished my speech when he said, They were `Aisha and Hafsa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:The wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) out of their jealousy, backed each other against the Prophet, so I said to them, "It may be, if he divorced you all, that Allah will give him, instead of you wives better than you." So this Verse was revealed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I was in a seclusion in the cave of Hira........."(similar to the narration related by `Ali bin Al-Mubarak, 444 above) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:(Similarly--as no. 452 above) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(as regards the explanation of Hadith 454). 'Indeed, it (Hell) throws about sparks (huge) as Forts.' We used to collect wood in the form of logs, three cubits long or shorter. for heating purposes in winter., and we used to call such wood, the Qasr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pointing with his index and middle fingers, saying. "The time of my Advent and the Hour are like these two fingers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Such a person as recites the Qur'an and masters it by heart, will be with the noble righteous scribes (in Heaven). And such a person exerts himself to learn the Qur'an by heart, and recites it with great difficulty, will have a double reward (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day when all mankind will stand before the Lord of the Worlds, some of them will be enveloped in their sweat up to the middle of their ears (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(as regards the Verse):--'You shall surely travel from stage to stage (in this life and in the Hereafter).' (It means) from one state to another. That concerns your Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jundub Al-Bajali:A lady said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I see that your friend has delayed. (in conveying Qur'an) to you." So there was revealed: 'Your Lord (O Muhammad) has neither forsaken you, not hated you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was on a journey, he recited Surat at-Tini waz-Zaituni (95) in one of the first two rak`at of the `Isha prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The commencement of the Divine Inspiration to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was in the form of true dreams. The Angel came to him and said, "Read, in the Name of your Lord Who has created (all that exists), has created man a clot. Read! And your Lord is Most Generous (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) returned to Khadija and said, "Wrap me! Wrap me!" (Then the sub-narrator narrated the rest of the narration) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Abu Jahl said, "If I see Muhammad praying at the Ka`ba, I will tread on his neck." When the Prophet (ﷺ) heard of that, he said, "If he does so, the Angels will snatch him away (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) was made to ascend to the Heavens, he said (after his return), "I came upon a river the banks of which were made of tents of hollow pearls. I asked Gabriel. What is this (river?) He replied, 'This is the Kauthar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Ubaida:I asked `Aisha 'regarding the verse:--'Verily we have granted you the Kauthar.' She replied, "The Kauthar is a river which has been given to your Prophet on the banks of which there are (tents of) hollow pearls and its utensils are as numberless as the stars (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say very often in bowing and prostration (during his prayers), Subhanka Allahumma Rabbana wa bihamdika; Allahumma ighfirli," according to the order of the Qur'an (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Abu Lahab said, "May you perish! Is it' for this that you have gathered us?" So there was revealed:'Perish the hands of Abu Lahab (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) remained in Mecca for ten years, during which the Qur'an used to be revealed to him; and he stayed in Medina for ten years (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha and Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) remained in Mecca for ten years, during which the Qur'an used to be revealed to him; and he stayed in Medina for ten years (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah sent down His Divine Inspiration to His Apostle continuously and abundantly during the period preceding his death till He took him unto Him. That was the period of the greatest part of revelation; and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died after that (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:Surat Bani-lsrael, Al-Kahf (The Cave), Maryam, Taha, Al-Anbiya' (The prophets) are amongst my first earnings and my old property, and (in fact) they are my old property (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara':I learnt, 'Glorify the Name of your Lord the Most High' (Surat al-A'la) No 87, before the Prophet (ﷺ) came (to Medina) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Masriq:`Abdullah bin `Amr mentioned `Abdullah bin Masud and said, "I shall ever love that man, for I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'Take (learn) the Qur'an from four: `Abdullah bin Masud, Salim, Mu`adh and Ubai bin Ka`b (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas bin Malik: "Who collected the Qur'an at the time of the Prophet (ﷺ) ?" He replied, "Four, all of whom were from the Ansar: Ubai bin Ka`b, Mu`adh bin Jabal, Zaid bin Thabit and Abu Zaid (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, none had collected the Qur'an but four persons;: Abu Ad-Darda'. Mu`adh bin Jabal, Zaid bin Thabit and Abu Zaid. We were the inheritor (of Abu Zaid) as he had no offspring (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas'ud:Whoever recites two verses ... (text as in the following hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas'ud: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody recited the last two Verses of Surat Al-Baqara at night, that will be sufficient for him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah does not listen to a prophet as He listens to a prophet who recites the Qur'an in a pleasant tone." The companion of the sub-narrator (Abu Salama) said, "It means, reciting it aloud (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uthman:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best among you (Muslims) are those who learn the Qur'an and teach it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uthman bin `Affan:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most superior among you (Muslims) are those who learn the Qur'an and teach it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The example of the person who knows the Qur'an by heart is like the owner of tied camels. If he keeps them tied, he will control them, but if he releases them, they will run away (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Commit yourself to the Qur'an, for by Him in whose Hand is my soul, it is surely more prone to break away than a camel in its bind (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reciting Surat-al-Fath on his she-camel on the day of the Conquest of Mecca (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:Those Suras which you people call the Mufassal, are the Muhkam. And Ibn `Abbas said, "Allah's Apostle died when I was a boy of ten years, and I had learnt the Muhkam (of the Qur'an) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:Ibn `Abbas said, "I have learnt all the Muhkam Suras during the life time of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)." I said to him, 'What is meant by the Muhkam?" He replied, "The Mufassal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man reciting the Qur'an in the mosque and said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him, as he has reminded me of such-and-such Verses of such a Surah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) heard a man reciting the Qur'an at night, and said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him, as he has reminded me of such-and-such Verses of such-and-such Suras, which I was caused to forget (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Why does anyone of the people say, 'I have forgotten such-and-such Verses (of the Qur'an)?' He, in fact, is caused (by Allah) to forget (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud al-Ansari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If one recites the last two verses of Surat al-Baqarah at night, it is sufficient for him (for that night) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a reciter reciting, the Qur'an in the mosque at night. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "May Allah bestow His Mercy on him, as he has remind ed me of such-and-such Verses of such and-such Suras, which I missed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas bin Malik about the recitation of the Prophet. He said, "He used to pray long (certain sounds) very much (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting (Qur'an) while he was riding on his she camel or camel which was moving, carrying him. He was reciting Surat Fath or part of Surat Fath very softly and in an Attractive vibrating tone (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him' "O Abu Musa! You have been given one of the mazamir (sweet melodious voices) of the family of David (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "Recite the Qur'an to me." `Abdullah said, "Shall I recite (the Qur'an) to you while it has been revealed to you?" He said, "I like to hear it from others (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sufyan: Ibn Shubruma said, "I wanted to see how much of the Qur'an can be enough (to recite in prayer) and I could not find a Surah containing less than three Verses, therefore I said to myself), "One ought not to recite less than three (Quranic) Verses (in prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) asked me, "How long does it take you to finish the recitation of the whole Qur'an? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Recite Qur'an to me." I said to him. "Shall I recite (it) to you while it has been revealed to you?" He said, "I like to hear it from another person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Recite (and study) the Qur'an as long as you agree about its interpretation, but if you have any difference of opinion (as regards to its interpretation and meaning) then you should stop reciting it (for the time being) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jundub:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Recite (and study) the Qur'an as long as you agree about its interpretation, but when you have any difference of opinion (as regards its interpretation and meaning) then you should stop reciting it (for the time being) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go round (have sexual relations with) all his wives in one night, and he had nine wives (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:Ibn `Abbas asked me, "Are you married?" I replied, "No." He said, "Marry, for the best person of this (Muslim) nation (i.e., Muhammad) of all other Muslims, had the largest number of wives (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Masud:We used to fight in the holy battles in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and we had no wives with us. So we said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Shall we get castrated?" The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to do so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade `Uthman bin Maz'un to abstain from marrying (and other pleasures) and if he had allowed him, we would have gotten ourselves castrated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:The Prophet (ﷺ) prevented `Uthman bin Mazun from that (not marrying), and had he allowed him, we would have got ourselves castrated (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Urwa:The Prophet (ﷺ) asked Abu Bakr for `Aisha's hand in marriage. Abu Bakr said "But I am your brother." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You are my brother in Allah's religion and His Book, but she (Aisha) is lawful for me to marry (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best women are the riders of the camels and the righteous among the women of Quraish. They are the kindest women to their children in their childhood and the more careful women of the property of their husbands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) manumitted Safiyya and regarded her manumission as her Mahr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman is married for four things, i.e., her wealth, her family status, her beauty and her religion. So you should marry the religious woman (otherwise) you will be a losers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Evil omen is in the women, the house and the horse (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Evil omen was mentioned before the Prophet: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If there is evil omen in anything, it is in the house, the woman and the horse (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If at all there is bad omen, it is in the horse, the woman, and the house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usama bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "After me I have not left any trial more severe to men than women (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:It was said to the Prophet, "Won't you marry the daughter of Hamza?" He said, "She is my foster niece (brother's daughter) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade that a woman should be married to man along with her paternal or maternal aunt (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A woman and her paternal aunt should not be married to the same man; and similarly, a woman and her maternal aunt should not be married to the same man (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Ash-Shighar, which means that somebody marries his daughter to somebody else, and the latter marries his daughter to the former without paying Mahr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) got married while he was in the state of Ihram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:I said to Ibn `Abbas, "During the battle of Khaibar the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade (Nikah) Al-Mut'a and the eating of donkey's meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah and Salama bin Al-Akwa`:While we were in an army, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us and said, "You have been allowed to do the Mut'a (marriage), so do it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah and Salama bin Al-Akwa`:While we were in an army, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us and said, "You have been allowed to do the Mut'a (marriage), so do it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:that the Prophet (ﷺ) married her when she was six years old and he consummated his marriage when she was nine years old, and then she remained with him for nine years (i.e., till his death) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:that the Prophet (ﷺ) married her when she was six years old and he consummated his marriage when she was nine years old. Hisham said: I have been informed that `Aisha remained with the Prophet (ﷺ) for nine years (i.e. till his death) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! A virgin feels shy." He said, "Her consent is (expressed by) her silence (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Khansa bint Khidam Al-Ansariya:that her father gave her in marriage when she was a matron and she disliked that marriage. So she went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he declared that marriage invalid (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to a man, "Marry, even with (a Mahr equal to) an iron ring (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The stipulations most entitled to be abided by are those with which you are given the right to enjoy the (women's) private parts (i.e. the stipulations of the marriage contract) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is not lawful for a woman (at the time of wedding) to ask for the divorce of her sister (i.e. the other wife of her would-be husband) in order to have everything for herself, for she will take only what has been written for her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) married me, my mother came to me and made me enter the house where I saw some women from the Ansar who said, "May you prosper and have blessings and have good omen (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A prophet among the prophets went for a military expedition and said to his people: "A man who has married a lady and wants to consummate his marriage with her and he has not done so yet, should not accompany me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Urwa:The Prophet (ﷺ) wrote the (marriage contract) with `Aisha while she was six years old and consummated his marriage with her while she was nine years old and she remained with him for nine years (i.e. till his death) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) married me, my mother came to me and made me enter the house (of the Prophet) and nothing surprised me but the coming of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to me in the forenoon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Did you get Anmat?" I said, 'O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! From where can we have Anmat?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Soon you will have them (Anmat) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Aisha: that she prepared a lady for a man from the Ansar as his bride and the Prophet said, "O 'Aisha! Haven't you got any amusement (during the marriage ceremony) as the Ansar like amusement? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not give a better wedding banquet on the occasion of marrying any of his wives than the one he gave on marrying Zainab, and that banquet was with (consisted of) one sheep (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) manumitted Safiyya and then married her, and her Mahr was her manumission, and he gave a wedding banquet with Hais (a sort of sweet dish made from butter, cheese and dates) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) consummated his marriage with a woman (Zainab), so he sent me to invite men to the meals (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thabit:The marriage of Zainab bint Jahash was mentioned in the presence of Anas and he said, "I did not see the Prophet (ﷺ) giving a better banquet on marrying any of his wives than the one he gave on marrying Zainab. He then gave a banquet with one sheep (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Safiyya bint Shaiba:The Prophet (ﷺ) gave a banquet with two Mudds of barley on marrying some of his wives. (1 Mudd= 1 3/4 of a kilogram) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you is invited to a wedding banquet, he must go for it (accept the invitation) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Set the captives free, accept the invitation (to a wedding banquet), and visit the patients (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The worst food is that of a wedding banquet to which only the rich are invited while the poor are not invited. And he who refuses an invitation (to a banquet) disobeys Allah and His Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If I am invited to a meal of trotters I will accept it; and if I am given a trotter as a present I will accept it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Accept the marriage invitation if you are invited to it.' " Ibn `Umar used to accept the invitation whether to a wedding banquet or to any other party, even when he was fasting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) saw some women and children coming from a wedding party. He got up energetically and happily and said, "By Allah! You (i.e., the Ansar) are the most beloved of all people to me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The woman is like a rib; if you try to straighten her, she will break. So if you want to get benefit from her, do so while she still has some crookedness (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to avoid chatting leisurely and freely with our wives lest some Divine inspiration might be revealed concerning us. But when the Prophet (ﷺ) had died, we started chatting leisurely and freely (with them) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Urwa:Aisha said, "While the Ethiopians were playing with their small spears, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) screened me behind him and I watched (that display) and kept on watching till I left on my own." So you may estimate of what age a little girl may listen to amusement (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not fast (optional fasts) except with her husband's permission if he is at home (staying with her) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a man Invites his wife to sleep with him and she refuses to come to him, then the angels send their curses on her till morning (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If a woman spends the night deserting her husband's bed (does not sleep with him), then the angels send their curses on her till she comes back (to her husband) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked at Paradise and saw that the majority of its residents were the poor; and I looked at the (Hell) Fire and saw that the majority of its residents were women (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zam`a:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should flog his wife as he flogs a slave and then have sexual intercourse with her in the last part of the day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:We used to practice coitus interrupt us during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:We used to practice coitus interrupt us while the Qur'an was being revealed. Jabir added: We used to practice coitus interrupt us during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while the Qur'an was being Revealed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:We used to practice coitus interrupt us while the Qur'an was being revealed. Jabir added: We used to practice coitus interrupt us during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while the Qur'an was being Revealed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Sauda bint Zam`a gave up her turn to me (`Aisha), and so the Prophet (ﷺ) used to give me (`Aisha) both my day and the day of Sauda (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pass by (have sexual relation with) all his wives in one night, and at that time he had nine wives (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finished his `Asr prayer, he would enter upon his wives and stay with one of them. One day he went to Hafsa and stayed with her longer than usual (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Masud:The Prophet, said, "There is none having a greater sense of Ghira than Allah. And for that He has forbidden the doing of evil actions (illegal sexual intercourse etc.) There is none who likes to be praised more than Allah does (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma':I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is nothing (none) having a greater sense of Ghira (self-respect) than Allah." And narrated Abu Huraira that he heard the Prophet (saying the same) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet; said, "Allah has a sense of Ghira, and Allah's sense of Ghira is provoked when a believer does something which Allah has prohibited (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:An Ansari woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he took her aside and said (to her). "By Allah, you (Ansar) are the most beloved people to me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the wife of anyone of you asks permission to go to the mosque, he should not forbid her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not look at or touch another woman to describe her to her husband in such a way as if he was actually looking at her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A woman should not look at or touch another woman to describe her to her husband in such a way as if he was actually looking at her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) disliked that one should go to one's family at night (on returning from a journey) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you is away from his house for a long time, he should not return to his family at night (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Abu Bakr admonished me and poked me with his hands in the flank, and nothing stopped me from moving at that time except the position of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) whose head was on my thigh (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:(Divorcing my wife during her menses) was counted as one legal divorce (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:similarly as above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave us the option (to remain with him or to be divorced) and we selected Allah and His Apostle . So, giving us that option was not regarded as divorce (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Masruq:I asked `Aisha about the option: She said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) gave us the option. Do you think that option was considered as a divorce?" I said, "It matters little to me if I give my wife the option once or a hundred times after she has chosen me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Jubair:that he heard Ibn `Abbas saying, "If a man makes his wife unlawful for him, it does not mean that she is divorced." He added, "Indeed in the Messenger of Allah , you have a good example to follow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ikrima:The sister of `Abdullah bin Ubai narrated (the above narration, 197) with the addition that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Thabit's wife, "Will you return his garden?" She said, "Yes," and returned it, and (then) the Prophet ordered Thabit to divorce her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ikrima:that Jamila... Then he related the whole ,Hadith, (i.e) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswar bin Makhrama Az-Zuhri:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Banu Al-Mughira have asked my leave to let `Ali marry their daughter, but I give no leave to this effect (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I saw him as a slave, (namely, Barira's husband) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:That was Mughith, the slave of Bani so-and-so, i.e., Barira's husband as if I am now looking at him following her (Barira) along the streets of Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Barira's husband was a black slave called Mughith, the slave of Bani so-and-so-- as if I am seeing him now, walking behind her along the streets of Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar used to say about the Ila (which Allah defined (in the Holy Book), "If the period of Ila expires, then the husband has either to retain his wife in a handsome manner or to divorce her as Allah has ordered (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Afflictions will emerge from here," pointing towards the East (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I and the one who looks after an orphan will be like this in Paradise," showing his middle and index fingers and separating them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:An Ansari man accused his wife (of committing illegal sexual intercourse). The Prophet (ﷺ) made both of them takes the oath of Lian, and separated them from each other (by divorce) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) separated (divorced) the wife from her husband who accused her for an illegal sexual intercourse, and made them take the oath of Lian (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) made an Ansari man and his wife carry out Lian, and then separated them by divorce (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) made a man and his wife carry out Lian, and the husband repudiated her child. So the Prophet got them separated (by divorce) and decided that the child belonged to the mother only (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abdullah:that his father had written to Ibn Al-Arqam a letter asking him to ask Subai'a Al-Aslamiya how the Prophet had given her the verdict. She said, "The Prophet, gave me his verdict that after I gave birth, I could marry (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Miswer bin Makhrama:Subai'a Al-Aslamiya gave birth to a child a few days after the death of her husband. She came to the Prophet and asked permission to remarry, and the Prophet (ﷺ) gave her permission, and she got married (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Qasim:Aisha said, "What is wrong with Fatima? Why doesn't she fear Allah?" by saying that a divorced lady is not entitled to be provided with residence and sustenance (by her husband) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Qasim:Aisha said, "What is wrong with Fatima? Why doesn't she fear Allah?" by saying that a divorced lady is not entitled to be provided with residence and sustenance (by her husband) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Urwa:Aisha disapproved of what Fatima used to say (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Urwa:Aisha disapproved of what Fatima used to say (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Hasan:Ma'qil gave his sister in marriage and later her husband divorced her once (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Habiba:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is not lawful for a Muslim woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days, except for her husband, for whom she should mourn for four months and ten days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um 'Atiyya:We were forbidden to mourn for more than three days except for a husband (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Um 'Atiyya added:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "She should not use perfume except when she becomes clean from her menses whereupon she can use Qust, and Azfar (two kinds of incense) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited taking the price of a dog, the earnings of a soothsayer and the money earned by prostitution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade taking the earnings of a slave girl by prostitution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud Al-Ansari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When a Muslim spends something on his family intending to receive Allah's reward it is regarded as Sadaqa for him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'O son of Adam! Spend, and I shall spend on you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The one who looks after a widow or a poor person is like a Mujahid (warrior) who fights for Allah's Cause, or like him who performs prayers all the night and fasts all the day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The best alms is that which you give when you are rich, and you should start first to support your dependants (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to sell the dates of the garden of Bani An-Nadir and store for his family so much food as would cover their needs for a whole year (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Hind bint `Utba came and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Abu Sufyan is a miser so is it sinful of me to feed our children from his property?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No except if you take for your needs what is just and reasonable (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the wife gives of her husband's property (something in charity) without his permission, he will get half the reward (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Aswad bin Yazid:I asked `Aisha "What did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to do at home?" She said, "He used to work for his family, and when he heard the Adhan (call for the prayer), he would go out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) gave me a silk suit and I wore it, but when I noticed anger on his face, I cut it and distributed it among my women-folk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Hind (bint `Utba) said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Abu Sufyan is a miser. Is there any harm if I take of his property what will cover me and my children's needs?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take (according to your needs) in a reasonable manner (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Give food to the hungry, pay a visit to the sick and release (set free) the one in captivity (by paying his ransom) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: The family of Muhammad did not eat their fill for three successive days till he died (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar bin Al Salama:Who was the son of Um Salama, the wife of the Prophet: Once I ate a meal with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I was eating from all sides of the dish. So Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me, "Eat of the dish what is nearer to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Wahb bin Kaisan Abi Nu'aim:A meal was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while his step-son, `Umar bin Abi Salama was with him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, "Mention the Name of Allah and eat of the dish what is nearer to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to love to start doing things from the right side whenever possible, in performing ablution, putting on his shoes, and combing his hair. (Al-Ash'ath said: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so in all his affairs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) died when we had satisfied our hunger with the two black things, i.e. dates and water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:We were in the company of Anas whose baker was with him. Anas said, The Prophet (ﷺ) did not eat thin bread, or a roasted sheep till he met Allah (died) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:To the best of my knowledge, the Prophet (ﷺ) did not take his meals in a big tray at all, nor did he ever eat well-baked thin bread, nor did he ever eat at a dining table (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The food for two persons is sufficient for three, and the food of three persons is sufficient for four persons (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A believer eats in one intestine (is satisfied with a little food), and a kafir (unbeliever) or a hypocrite eats in seven intestines (eats too much) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr:Abu Nahik was avaricious eater. Ibn `Umar said to him, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A Kafir (unbeliever) eats in seven intestines (eats much)." On that Abu Nahik said, "But I believe in Allah and His Apostle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim eats in one intestine (i.e. he is satisfied with a little food) while a Kafir (unbeliever) eats in seven intestines (eats much) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:A man used to eat much, but when he embraced Islam, he started eating less. That was mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ) who then said, "A believer eats in one intestine (is satisfied with a little food) and a Kafir eats in seven intestines (eats much) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Juhaifa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I do not take my meals while leaning (against something) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Juhaifa:While I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) he said to a man who was with him, "I do not take my meals while leaning (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:My aunt presented (roasted) mastigures, Iqt and milk to the Prophet (ﷺ) . The mastigures were put on his dining sheet, and if it was unlawful to eat, it would not have been put there. The Prophet (ﷺ) drank the milk and ate the Iqt only (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: The Prophet (ﷺ) ate of the meat of a shoulder (by cutting the meat with his teeth), and then got up and offered the prayer without performing the ablution anew (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) took out a bone with meat on it from a cooking pot and ate of it, and then offered the prayer without performing ablution anew (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:We went out towards Mecca with the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) never criticized any food (he was invited to) but he used to eat if he liked the food, and leave it if he disliked it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Hazim:that he asked Sahl, "Did you use white flour during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) ?" Sahl replied, "No. Hazim asked, "Did you use to sift barley flour?" He said, "No, but we used to blow off the husk (of the barley) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) distributed dates among his companions and gave each one seven dates. He gave me seven dates too, one of which was dry and hard, but none of the other dates was more liked by me than that one, for it prolonged my chewing it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:that he passed by a group of people in front of whom there was a roasted sheep. They invited him but he refused to eat and said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left this world without satisfying his hunger even with barley bread (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) never took his meals at a dining table, nor in small plates, and he never ate thin wellbaked bread. (The sub-narrator asked Qatada, "Over what did they use to take their meals?" Qatada said, "On leather dining sheets) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The family of Muhammad had not eaten wheat bread to their satisfaction for three consecutive days since his arrival at Medina till he died (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The superiority of `Aisha to other women is like the superiority of Tharid to other kinds of food (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:We used to visit Anas bin Malik while his baker was standing (and baking). Anas would say, "Eat! I do not know that the Prophet (ﷺ) had ever seen well-baked bread till he met Allah, nor had he ever seen a roasted sheep with his own eyes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin Umaiyay Ad-Damri:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cutting part of the shoulder of mutton with a knife. He ate of it and then was called for prayer whereupon he got up and put down the knife and offered the prayer without performing new ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:We used to carry the meat of the Hadis (sacrificed animals) to Medina during the life-time of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The superiority of `Aisha to other ladies is like the superiority of Tharid to other kinds of food (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Traveling is a kind of torture, as it prevents one from sleeping and eating! So when one has finished his job, he should return quickly to his family (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to love sweet edible things and honey (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to (the house of) his slave tailor, and he was offered (a dish of) gourd of which he started eating. I have loved to eat gourd since I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) being served with soup and containing gourd and cured meat, and I saw him picking and eating the pieces of gourd (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ja`far bin Abi Talib:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating fresh dates with snake cucumber (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Aishah (ra) said, "When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, we had been satisfied by the two black things, i.e., dates and water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He who eats seven 'Ajwa dates every morning, will not be affected by poison or magic on the day he eats them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ja`far:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) eating fresh dates with snake cucumbers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is a tree among the trees which is similar to a Muslim (in goodness), and that is the date palm tree (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Ja`far:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating fresh dates with snake cucumbers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdul `Aziz:It was said to Anas "What did you hear the Prophet (ﷺ) saying about garlic?" Anas replied, "Whoever has eaten (garlic) should not approach our mosque (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has eaten garlic or onion should keep away from us (or should keep away from our mosque) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'When you eat, do not wipe your hands till you have licked it, or had it licked by somebody else (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Umama:Whenever the dining sheet of the Prophet (ﷺ) was taken away (i.e., whenever he finished his meal), he used to say: "Al-hamdu li l-lah kathiran taiyiban mubarakan fihi ghaira makfiy wala muWada` wala mustaghna'anhu Rabbuna (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated .Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When your servant brings your food to you, if you do not ask him to join you, then at least ask him to take one or two handfuls, for he has suffered from its heat (while cooking it) and has taken pains to cook it nicely (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, If supper is served and the Iqama for (Isha) prayer is proclaimed, start with you supper first (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi: Once Ibn Umar was taking his supper while he was listening to the recitation of (Quran by) the Imam (in the Isha prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the Iqama for (`Isha') prayer is proclaimed and supper is served, take your supper first (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:A son was born to me and I took him to the Prophet (ﷺ) who named him Ibrahim, did Tahnik for him with a date, invoked Allah to bless him and returned him to me. (The narrator added: That was Abu Musa's eldest son) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:A boy was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) to do Tahnik for him, but the boy urinated on him, whereupon the Prophet had water poured on the place of urine (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salman bin 'Amri Ad-Dabbi, the Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Aqiqa is to be offered for a (newly born) boy (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever keeps a (pet) dog which is neither a watch dog nor a hunting dog, will get a daily deduction of two Qirat from his good deeds (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If someone keeps a dog neither for hunting, nor for guarding livestock, the reward (for his good deeds) will be reduced by two Qirats per day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If someone keeps a dog neither for guarding livestock, nor for hunting, his good deeds will decrease (in reward) by two Qirats a day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
And it has also been narrated by `Adi bin Hatim that he asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "If a hunter throws an arrow at the game and after tracing it for two or three days he finds it dead but still bearing his arrow, (can he eat of it)?" The Prophet (ﷺ) replied, "He can eat if he wishes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:We provoked a rabbit at Marr Az-Zahran till it started jumping. My companions chased it till they got tired. But I alone ran after it and caught it and brought it to Abu Talha. He sent both its legs to the Prophet who accepted them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:(the same Hadith above, but he added); The Prophet (ﷺ) asked, "Is there any of its meat left with you? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:We participated with the Prophet (ﷺ) in six or seven Ghazawat, and we used to eat locusts with him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:that Ka`b had a slave girl who used to graze his sheep on a small mountain, called "Sl'a", situated near the market. Once a sheep was dying, so she broke a stone and slaughtered it with it. When they mentioned that to the Prophet, he, permitted them to eat it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ka`b bin Malik:A lady slaughtered a sheep with a stone and then the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about it and he permitted it to be eaten (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mu`adh bin Sa`d or Sa`d bin Mu`adh:A slave girl belonging to Ka`b used to graze some sheep at Sl'a (mountain). Once one of her sheep was dying. She reached it (before it died) and slaughtered it with a stone. The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked, and he said, "Eat it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Eat what is slaughtered (with any instrument) that makes blood flow out, except what is slaughtered with a tooth or a nail (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:A group of people said to the Prophet, "Some people bring us meat and we do not know whether they have mentioned Allah's Name or not on slaughtering the animal." He said, "Mention Allah's Name on it and eat." Those people had embraced Islam recently (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrates `Abdullah bin Mughaffal:While we were besieging the castle of Khaibar, Somebody threw a skin full of fat and I went ahead to take it, but on looking behind, I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) and I felt shy in his presence (and did not take it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma bint Abu Bakr:We slaughtered a horse (by Nahr) during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) and ate it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma':We slaughtered a horse (by Dhabh) during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while we were at Medina, and we ate it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma' bint Abu Bakr:We slaughtered a horse (by Nahr) during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and ate it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham bin Zaid:Anas and I went to Al-Hakam bin Aiyub. Anas saw some boys shooting at a tied hen. Anas said, "The Prophet has forbidden the shooting of tied or confined animals (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Yazid:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade An-Nuhba and Al-Muthla (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) eating chicken (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma':We slaughtered a horse during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and ate it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:On the Day of the battle of Khaibar, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made donkey's meat unlawful and allowed the eating of horse flesh (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) made the meat of donkeys unlawful on the day of the battle of Khaibar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited the eating of donkey's meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited Al-Mut'a marriage and the eating of donkey's meat in the year of the Khaibar battle (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited the eating of donkey's meat on the day of the battle of Khaibar, and allowed the eating of horse flesh (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' and Ibn Abi `Aufa:The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited the eating of donkey's meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara' and Ibn Abi `Aufa:The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited the eating of donkey's meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Tha'alba: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited the eating of donkey's meat. Narrated Az-Zuhri: The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited the eating of beasts having fangs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Tha`laba:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of the meat of beasts having fangs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Abbas:Once Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) passed by a dead sheep and said (to the people), "Why don't you use its hide?" They said, "But it is dead," He said, "Only eating it, is prohibited (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a dead goat and said, "There is no harm if its owners benefit from its skin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None is wounded in Allah's Cause but will come on the Day of Resurrection with his wound bleeding. The thing that will come out of his wound will be the color of blood, but its smell will be the smell of musk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once we provoked a rabbit at Marr-az-Zahran. The people chased it till they got tired. Then I caught It and brought it to Abu Talha, who slaughtered it and then sent both its pelvic pieces (or legs) to the Prophet, and the Prophet (ﷺ) accepted the present (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I do not eat mastigure, but I do not prohibit its eating (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:A mouse fell into the butter-fat and died. The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about that. He said, "Throw away the mouse and the butter-fat that surrounded it, and eat the rest of the butter-fat (As-Samn) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Maimuna:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about a mouse that had fallen into butter-fat (and died). He said, "Throw away the mouse and the portion of butter-fat around it, and eat the rest (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim:that Ibn `Umar disliked the branding of animals on the face. Ibn `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade beating (animals) on the face (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:I brought a brother of mine to the Prophet (ﷺ) to do Tahnik for him while the Prophet (ﷺ) was in a sheep fold of his, and I saw him branding a sheep. (The sub-narrator said: I think Anas said, branding it on the ear) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever slaughtered the sacrifice before the prayer, he just slaughtered it for himself, and whoever slaughtered it after the prayer, he slaughtered it at the right time and followed the tradition of the Muslims (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi': 'Abdullah (bin 'Umar) used to slaughter his sacrifice at the slaughtering place (i.e the slaughtering place of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to slaughter (camels and sheep, etc.,) as sacrifices at the Musalla (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer two rams as sacrifices, and I also used to offer two rams (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came towards two horned rams having black and white colors and slaughtered them with his own hands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:that the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him some sheep to distribute among his companions to slaughter as sacrifices (`Id--al--Adha). A kid goat was left and he told the Prophet (ﷺ) of that whereupon he said to him, "Slaughter it as a sacrifice (on your behalf) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered two rams, black and white in color (as sacrifices), and I saw him putting his foot on their sides and mentioning Allah's Name and Takbir (Allahu Akbar). Then he slaughtered them with his own hands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to offer as sacrifices, two horned rams, black and white in color, and used to put his foot on their sides and slaughter them with his own hands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered as sacrifices, two horned rams, black and white in color. He slaughtered them with his own hands and mentioned Allah's Name over them and said Takbir and put his foot on their sides (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:During the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) we used to take with us the meat of the sacrifices (of Id al Adha) to Medina. (The narrator often said. The meat of the Hadi) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:We used to salt some of the meat of sacrifice and present it to the Prophet (ﷺ) at Medina. Once he said, "Do not eat (of that meat) for more than three days." That was not a final order, but (that year) he wanted us to feed of it to others, Allah knows better (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever drinks alcoholic drinks in the world and does not repent (before dying), will be deprived of it in the Hereafter (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:"Alcoholic drinks were prohibited (by Allah) when there was nothing of it (special kind of wine) in Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:"Alcoholic drinks were prohibited at the time we could rarely find wine made from grapes in Medina, for most of our liquors were made from unripe and ripe dates (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:`Umar stood up on the pulpit and said, "Now then, prohibition of alcoholic drinks have been revealed, and these drinks are prepared from five things, i.e.. grapes, dates, honey, wheat or barley And an alcoholic drink is that, that disturbs the mind (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:While I was waiting on my uncles and serving them with (wine prepared from) dates----and I was the youngest of them----it was said, "Alcoholic drinks have been prohibited." So they said (to me), "Throw it away." So I threw it away (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Alcoholic drinks were prohibited. At that time these drinks used to be prepared from unripe and ripe dates (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about Al-Bit. He said, "All drinks that intoxicate are unlawful (to drink) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Aisha: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about Al-Bit a liquor prepared from honey which the Yemenites used to drink. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "All drinks that intoxicate are unlawful (to drink) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Anas bin Malik said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not make drinks in Ad-Dubba' nor in Al-Muzaffat. Abu Huraira used to add to them Al-Hantam and An-Naqir (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Umar: "Alcoholic drinks are prepared from five things, i.e., raisins, dates. wheat, barley and honey (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:Abu Usaid As-Sa`idi came and invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the occasion of his wedding. His wife who was the bride, was serving them. Do you know what drink she prepared for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ? She had soaked some dates in water in a Tur overnight (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the use of (certain) containers, but the Ansar said, "We cannot dispense with them." The Prophet (ﷺ) then said, "If so, then use them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:When the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the use of certain containers (that were used for preparing alcoholic drinks), somebody said to the Prophet (ﷺ) . "But not all the people can find skins." So he allowed them to use clay jars not covered with pitch (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the use of Ad-Dubba' and Al Muzaffat. A'mash also narrated this (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ash-Shaibani:I heard `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the use of green jars." I said, "Shall we drink out of white jars?" He said, "No (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like sweet edible things and honey (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the drinking of alcoholic drinks prepared from raisins, dates, unripe dates and fresh ripe dates (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the mixing of ripe and unripe dates and also the mixing of dates and raisins (for preparing a syrup) but the syrup of each kind of fruit should be prepared separately. ( One may have such drinks as long as it is fresh) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was presented a bowl of milk and a bowl of wine on the night he was taken on a journey (Al-Mi'raj) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Al-Fadl:The people doubted whether Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was fasting or the Day of `Arafat or not. So I sent a cup containing milk to him and he drank it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Abu Humaid brought a cup of mix from a place called Al-Naqi. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, "Will you not cover it, even by placing a stick across its (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Abu Humaid, an Ansari man, came from AnNaqi carrying a cup of milk to the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Will you not cover it even by placing a stick across it? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) drank milk and then rinsed his mouth and said, "It contains fat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like sweet edible things (syrup, etc.) and honey (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated An-Nazzal:Ali came to the gate of the courtyard (of the Mosque) and drank (water) while he was standing and said, "Some people dislike to drink while standing, but I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) doing (drinking water) as you have seen me doing now (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) drank Zamzam (water) while standing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Al-Fadl:(daughter of Al-Harith) that she sent a bowl of milk to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was standing (at `Arafat) in the afternoon of the Day of `Arafat. He took it in his hands and drank it. Narrated Abu Nadr: The Prophet was on the back of his camel (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Milk mixed with water was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while a bedouin was on his right and Abu Bakr was on his left. He drank (of it) and then gave (it) to the bedouin and said, 'The right" "The right (first) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Extinguish the lamps when you go to bed; close your doors; tie the mouths of your water skins, and cover the food and drinks." I think he added, ". . . even with a stick you place across the container (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the bending of the mouths of water skins for the sake of drinking from them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding the drinking of water by bending the mouths of water skins, i.e., drinking from the mouths directly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade drinking directly from the mouth of a water skin or other leather containers. and forbade preventing one's neighbor from fixing a peg in (the wall of) one's house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the drinking of water directly from the mouth of a water skin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the drinking of water direct from the mouth of a water-skin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When you drink (water), do not breath in the vessel; and when you urinate, do not touch your penis with your right hand. And when you cleanse yourself after defecation, do not use your right hand (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thumama bin `Abdullah:Anas used to breathe twice or thrice in the vessel (while drinking) and used to say that the Prophet; used to take three breaths while drinking (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not drink in gold or silver utensils, and do not wear clothes of silk or Dibaj, for these things are for them (unbelievers) in this world and for you in the Hereafter (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Salama:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "He who drinks in silver utensils is only filling his `Abdomen with Hell Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Al-Fadl:that the people were in doubt whether the Prophet (ﷺ) was fasting on the Day of `Arafat or not, so a (wooden) drinking vessel full of milk was sent to him, and he drank it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No calamity befalls a Muslim but that Allah expiates some of his sins because of it, even though it were the prick he receives from a thorn (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No fatigue, nor disease, nor sorrow, nor sadness, nor hurt, nor distress befalls a Muslim, even if it were the prick he receives from a thorn, but that Allah expiates some of his sins for that (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri and Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No fatigue, nor disease, nor sorrow, nor sadness, nor hurt, nor distress befalls a Muslim, even if it were the prick he receives from a thorn, but that Allah expiates some of his sins for that (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ka`b:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of a believer is that of a fresh tender plant, which the wind bends lt sometimes and some other time it makes it straight. And the example of a hypocrite is that of a pine tree which keeps straight till once it is uprooted suddenly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah wants to do good to somebody, He afflicts him with trials (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:I never saw anybody suffering so much from sickness as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Muisa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Feed the hungry, visit the sick, and set free the captives (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Allah said, 'If I deprive my slave of his two beloved things (i.e., his eyes) and he remains patient, I will let him enter Paradise in compensation for them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:A Jewish boy used to serve the Prophet (ﷺ) and became ill. The Prophet (ﷺ) went to pay him a visit and said to him, "Embrace Islam," and he did embrace Islam. Al-Musaiyab said: When Abu Talib was on his deathbed, the Prophet (ﷺ) visited him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to visit me (while I was sick) and he was riding neither a mule, nor a horse (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ka`b bin 'Ujara:The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by me while I was kindling a fire under a (cooking) pot. He said, "Do the lice of your head trouble you?" I said, "Yes." So he called a barber to shave my head and ordered me to make expiation for that (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should wish for death because of a calamity befalling him; but if he has to wish for death, he should say: "O Allah! Keep me alive as long as life is better for me, and let me die if death is better for me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) , who was resting against me, saying, "O Allah! Excuse me and bestow Your Mercy on me and let me join with the highest companions (in Paradise)." See Qur'an (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no disease that Allah has created, except that He also has created its treatment (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Rubai bint Mu`adh bin Afra:We used to go for Military expeditions along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and provide the people with water, serve them and bring the dead and the wounded back to Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:(The Prophet (ﷺ) said), "Healing is in three things: A gulp of honey, cupping, and branding with fire (cauterizing)." But I forbid my followers to use (cauterization) branding with fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Healing is in three things: cupping, a gulp of honey or cauterization, (branding with fire) but I forbid my followers to use cauterization (branding with fire) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like sweet edible things and honey (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If there is any healing in your medicines, then it is in cupping, a gulp of honey or branding with fire (cauterization) that suits the ailment, but I don't like to be (cauterized) branded with fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is healing in black cumin for all diseases except death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham's father:`Aisha used to recommend at-Talbina and used to say, "It is disliked (by the patient) although it is beneficial (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped and he paid the wages to the one who had cupped him and then took Su'ut (Medicine sniffed by nose) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped while he was fasting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped while he was in a state of Ihram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:that he paid Al-Muqanna a visit during his illness and said, "I will not leave till he gets cupped, for I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is healing in cupping (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped on the middle of his head at Lahl Jamal on his way to Mecca while he was in a state of Ihram. Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped on his head (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Buhaina:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped on the middle of his head at Lahl Jamal on his way to Mecca while he was in a state of Ihram. Narrated Ibn `Abbas: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was cupped on his head (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If there is any good in your medicines, then it is in a gulp of honey, a cupping operation, or branding (cauterization), but I do not like to be (cauterized) branded (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If there is any healing in your medicines then it is a cupping operation, or branding (cauterization), but I do not like to be (cauterized) branded (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Zaid:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Truffles are like Manna (i.e. they grow naturally without man's care) and their water heals eye diseases (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nazi':`Abdullah bin `Umar said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Fever is from the heat of Hell, so put it out (cool it) with water.' " Nafi` added: `Abdullah used to say, "O Allah! Relieve us from the punishment," (when he suffered from fever) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Fatima bint Al-Mundhir:Whenever a lady suffering from fever was brought to Asma' bint Abu Bakr, she used to invoke Allah for her and then sprinkle some water on her body, at the chest and say, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to order us to abate fever with water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Fever is from the heat of Hell, so abate fever with water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Rafi` bin Khadij:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Fever is from the heat of Hell, so abate fever with water (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Saud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you hear of an outbreak of plague in a land, do not enter it; but if the plague breaks out in a place while you are in it, do not leave that place (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Neither Messiah (Ad-Dajjal) nor plague will enter Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(Death from) plague is martyrdom for every Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He (a Muslim) who dies of an abdominal disease is a martyr, and he who dies of plague is a martyr (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered me or somebody else to do Ruqya (if there was danger) from an evil eye (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Salama:that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw in her house a girl whose face had a black spot. He said. "She is under the effect of an evil eye; so treat her with a Ruqya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The effect of an evil eye is a fact." And he prohibited tattooing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Aswad:I asked `Aisha about treating poisonous stings (a snake-bite or a scorpion sting) with a Ruqya. She said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed the treatment of poisonous sting with Ruqya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to treat with a Ruqya saying, "O the Lord of the people! Remove the trouble The cure is in Your Hands, and there is none except You who can remove it (the disease) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say to the patient, "In the Name of Allah The earth of our land and the saliva of some of us cure our patient (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to read in his Ruqya, "In the Name of Allah" The earth of our land and the saliva of some of us cure our patient with the permission of our Lord." with a slight shower of saliva) while treating with a Ruqya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is neither 'Adwa (no contagious disease is conveyed to others without Allah's permission) nor Tiyara, but an evil omen may be in three a woman, a house or an animal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "There is no Tiyara, and the best omen is the Fal." They asked, "What is the Fal?" He said, "A good word that one of you hears (and takes as a good omen) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no Tiyara and the best omen is the Fal," Somebody said, "What is the Fal, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "A good word that one of you hears (and takes as a good omen) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No 'Adwa (no contagious disease is conveyed to others without Allah's permission), nor Tiyara, but I like the good Fal, i.e., the good word (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no 'Adwa, nor Tiyara, nor Hama, nor Safar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the utilization of the price of a dog, the earnings of prostitute and the earnings of a foreteller (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Avoid the Mubiqat, i.e., shirk and witchcraft (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Two men came from the East and addressed the people who wondered at their eloquent speeches On that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said. Some eloquent speech is as effective as magic (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Saud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody takes some `Ajwa dates every morning, he will not be affected by poison or magic on that day till night." (Another narrator said seven dates) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Saud:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "If Somebody takes seven 'Ajwa dates in the morning, neither magic nor poison will hurt him that day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: The cattle (sheep, cows, camels, etc.) suffering from a disease should not be mixed up with healthy cattle, (or said: "Do not put a patient with a healthy person ). " (as a precaution) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "there is neither 'Adwa nor Tiyara, and an evil omen is only in three: a horse, a woman and a house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No 'Adwa nor Tiyara; but I like Fal." They said, "What is the Fal?" He said, "A good word (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever takes seven 'Ajwa dates in the morning will not be effected by magic or poison on that day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Allah will not look at the person who drags his garment (behind him) out of conceit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The part of an Izar which hangs below the ankles is in the Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), "Allah will not look, on the Day of Resurrection, at a person who drags his Izar (behind him) out of pride and arrogance (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (or 'Abul Qasim) said, "While a man was walking, clad in a two-piece garment and proud of himself with his hair well-combed, suddenly Allah made him sink into the earth and he will go on sinking into it till the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever drags his clothes (on the ground) out of pride and arrogance, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali:The Prophet (ﷺ) asked for his Rida, put it on and set out walking. Zaid bin Haritha and I followed him till he reached the house where Harnza (bin `Abdul Muttalib) was present and asked for permission to enter, and they gave us permission (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin 'Amir:A silken Farruj was presented to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he put it on and offered the prayer in it. When he finished the prayer, he took it off violently as if he disliked it and said, "This (garment) does not befit those who fear Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mu'tamir:I heard my father saying, "I saw Anas wearing a yellow hooded cloak of Khazz (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever cannot get an Izar, can wear trousers, and whoever cannot wear sandals can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:In the year of the conquest of Mecca the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Mecca, wearing a helmet on his head (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas, "What kind of clothes was most beloved to the Prophet?" He replied, "The Hibra (a kind of Yemenese cloth) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The most beloved garment to the Prophet (ﷺ) to wear was the Hibra (a kind of Yemenese cloth) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife of the Prophet) When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died, he was covered with a Hibra Burd (green square decorated garment) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Burda:Aisha brought out to us a Kisa and an Izar and said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) died while wearing these two." (Kisa, a square black piece of woolen cloth. Izar, a sheet cloth garment covering the lower half of the body) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade Ishtimal-as-Samma' and that a man should sit in an Ihtiba' posture in one garment, nothing of which covers his private parts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d:On the day of the battle of Uhud, on the right and on the left of the Prophet (ﷺ) were two men wearing white clothes, and I had neither seen them before, nor did I see them afterwards (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, Whoever wears silk in this world shall not wear it in the Hereafter (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thabit:I heard Ibn Az-Zubair delivering a sermon, saying, "Muhammad said, 'Whoever wears silk in this world, shall not wear it in the Hereafter (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Az-Zubair:I heard `Umar saying, "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever wears silk in this world, shall not wear it in the Hereafter." This hadith is also narrated through 'Umar ibn al-Khattab (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab (ra):Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None wears silk in this world, but he who will have no share in the Hereafter (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) was given a silk garment as a gift and we started touching it with our hands and admiring it. On that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do you wonder at this?" We said, "Yes." He said, "The handkerchiefs of Sa`d bin Mu`adh in Paradise are better than this (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to drink out of gold and silver vessels, or eat in it, Ann also forbade the wearing of silk and Dibaj or sitting on it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Azib:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade us to use the red Mayathir and to use Al-Qassiy (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) allowed Az-Zubair and `Abdur-Rahman to wear silk because they were suffering from an itch (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ali bin Abi Talib:The Prophet (ﷺ) gave me a silk suit. I went out wearing it, but seeing the signs of anger on his face, I tore it and distributed it among my wives (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that he had seen Um Kulthum, the daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) , wearing a red silk garment (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade men to use saffron (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade Muhrims to wear clothes dyed with Wars or saffron (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) was of a modest height. I saw him wearing a red suit, and I did not see anything better than him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id Abu Maslama:I asked Anas (bin Malik), "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to offer the prayers with his shoes on?" He said, "Yes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade that a Muhrim should wear clothes dyed with Saffron or Wars, and said, "Whoever has no shoes can put on Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather) after cutting it below the ankles (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has no Izar (waist sheet), can wear trousers; and whoever has no sandals, can wear Khuffs (socks made from thick fabric or leather, but cut them short below the ankles) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like starting from the right in performing ablution, combing his hair and putting on his shoes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If you want to put on your shoes, put on the right shoe first; and if you want to take them off, take the left one first. Let the right shoe be the first to be put on and the last to be taken off (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should walk, wearing one shoe only; he should either put on both shoes or put on no shoes whatsoever (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The sandal of the Prophet (ﷺ) had two straps (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Isaa bin Tahman:Anas bin Malik brought out for us, two sandals having two straps. Thabit Al-Banani said, "These were the sandals of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) called for the Ansar and gathered them in a leather tent (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the wearing of a gold ring (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wore a gold ring, then he threw it and said, "I will never wear it." The people also threw their (gold) rings (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The ring of the Prophet (ﷺ) was of silver, and its stone was of silver too (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a silver ring made for himself and it was worn by him on his hand. Afterwards it was worn by Abu Bakr, and then by `Umar, and then by `Uthman till it fell in the Aris well. (On that ring) was engraved: 'Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) got a ring made for himself and said, "I have got a ring made (for myself) and engraved a certain engraving on it so none of you should get such an engraving on his ring." I saw the glitter of the ring on his little finger (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:that when Abu Bakr became the Caliph, he wrote a letter to him (and stamped it with the Prophet's ring) and the engraving of the ring was in three lines: Muhammad in one line, 'Apostle' in another line, and 'Allah' in a third line (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) came out on the day of `Id and offered a two-rak`at prayer, and he did not pray any rak`a before it, nor after it. Then he went towards the women and ordered them to give alms. The women started donating their earring and necklaces (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cursed those men who are in the similitude (assume the manners) of women and those women who are in the similitude (assume the manners) of men (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "To get the moustaches cut 'short is characteristic of the Fitra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Five practices are characteristics of the Fitra: circumcision, shaving the pubic region, clipping the nails and cutting the moustaches short (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "To shave the pubic hair. to clip the nails and to cut the moustaches short, are characteristics of the Fitra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying. "Five practices are characteristics of the Fitra: circumcision, shaving the pubic hair, cutting the moustaches short, clipping the nails, and depilating the hair of the armpits (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Nafi`:Ibn `Umar said, The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'Do the opposite of what the pagans do. Keep the beards and cut the moustaches short.' Whenever Ibn `Umar performed the Hajj or `Umra, he used to hold his beard with his hand and cut whatever remained outside his hold (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Cut the moustaches short and leave the beard (as it is) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin Seereen:I asked Anas, "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) dye his hair?" Anas replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) did not have except a few grey hairs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thabit:Anas was asked whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used a a hair dye or not. He replied, "The Prophet (ﷺ) did not have enough grey hair to dye, (such that) if I wanted to count the fading hairs in his beard (I could have) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uthman bin `Abdullah bin Mauhab:I went to Um Salama and she brought out for us some of the dyed hair of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Ibn Mauhab also said that Um Salama had shown him the red hair of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Jews and Christians do not dye their hair so you should do the opposite of what they do (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas : The hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to hang down up to his shoulders (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas: The head-hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to hang down to his shoulders (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:l asked Anas bin Malik about the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He said, "The hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither much straight, nor much curly, and it used to hang down till between his shoulders and his earlobes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) had big hands, and I have never seen anybody like him after him. The hair of the Prophet was wavy, neither curly nor straight (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) had big hands and feet, and I have not seen anybody like him, neither before nor after him, and his palms were soft (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) had big feet and a good-looking face and l have not seen anybody like him after him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) had big feet and a good-looking face and l have not seen anybody like him after him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) had big feet and hands (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas or Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) had big hands and feet and I have not seen anybody like him after him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas or Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) had big hands and feet and I have not seen anybody like him after him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard `Umar saying, "Whoever braids his hair should shave it (on finishing lhram). You'd better not do, something like Talbid." Ibn `Umar used to say: "I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with his hair stuck together with gum (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:As if I am now looking at the shine of the hair parting of the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was in the state of lhram (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated (Abdullah) bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Al-Qaza' (leaving a tuft of hair here and there after shaving one's head) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I applied perfume to the Prophet (ﷺ) with my own hands when he wanted to assume the state of Ihram, and I also perfumed him at Mina before he departed from there (to perform Tawaf-al-Ifada) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I used to perfume Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with the best scent available till I saw the shine of the scent on his head and shine beard (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I used to comb the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) during my periods. This hadith also reaches us through another chain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like to start from the right side as far as possible in combing and in performing ablution (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(Allah said), 'Every good deed of Adam's son is for him except fasting; it is for Me. and I shall reward (the fasting person) for it.' Verily, the smell of the mouth of a fasting person is better to Allah than the smell of musk (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:used to perfume the Prophet (ﷺ) before his assuming the state of with the best scent available (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Thumama bin `Abdullah;:Anas never used to refuse (a gift of) scent and used to say that the Prophet (ﷺ) never used to refuse (a gift of) scent (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:During Hajjat-al-Wada`, I perfumed Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with Dharira with my own hands, both on his assuming Ihram and on finishing it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah has cursed the lady who artificially lengthens (her or someone else's) hair and the one who gets her hair lengthened and the One who tattoos (herself or someone else) and the one who gets herself tattooed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Asma':(the daughter of Abu Bakr) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has cursed such a lady as artificially lengthening (her or someone else's) hair or gets her hair lengthened (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has cursed such a lady as lengthens (her or someone else's) hair artificially or gets it lengthened, and also a lady who tattoos (herself or someone else) or gets herself tattooed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) has cursed the lady who lengthens her hair artificially and the one who gets her hair lengthened, and also the lady who tattoos (herself or others) and the one who gets herself tattooed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The evil eye is a fact," and he forbade tattooing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Juhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the use of the price of blood and the price of a dog, the one who takes (eats) usury the one who gives usury, the woman who practises tattooing and the woman who gets herself tattooed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) has cursed the lady who lengthens hair artificially and that who gets her hair lengthened in such away, and the lady who practises tattooing and that who gets it done for herself (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Talha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or there are pictures (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muslim:We were with Masruq at the house of Yasar bin Numair. Masruq saw pictures on his terrace and said, "I heard `Abdullah saying that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The people who will receive the severest punishment from Allah will be the picture makers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Those who make these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said to them. 'Make alive what you have created (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I never used to leave in the Prophet (ﷺ) house anything carrying images or crosses but he obliterated it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) returned from a journey when I had hung a thick curtain having pictures (in front of a door). He ordered me to remove it and I removed it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Aisha added:The Prophet (ﷺ) and I used to take a bath from one container (of water) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Aisha had a thick curtain (having pictures on it) and she screened the side of her i house with it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "Remove it from my sight, for its pictures are still coming to my mind in my prayers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard Muhammad saying, "Whoever makes a picture in this world will be asked to put life into it on the Day of Resurrection, but he will not be able to do so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usama bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a donkey saddled with a saddle covered with a Fadakiyya velvet sheet, and he made me ride behind him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:When the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived at Mecca, the children of Bani `Abdul Muttalib received him. He then mounted one of them in front of him and the other behind him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abbad bin Tamim's uncle:I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) lying-down in the mosque and placing one leg on the other (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:A man said to the Prophet, "Shall I participate in Jihad?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Are your parents living?" The man said, "Yes." the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do Jihad for their benefit (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sufyan:That Heraclius sent for him and said, "What did he, i.e. the Prophet (ﷺ) order you?" I replied, "He orders us to offer prayers; to give alms; to be chaste; and to keep good relations with our relatives (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari:It was said" "O Allah's Messenger! Inform me of a deed which will make me enter Paradise." (continues through a different chain in the next hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jubair bin Mut`im:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The person who severs the bond of kinship will not enter Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Who ever is pleased that he be granted more wealth and that his lease of life be pro longed, then he should keep good relations with his Kith and kin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah 's Apostle said, "Whoever loves that he be granted more wealth and that his lease of life be prolonged then he should keep good relations with his Kith and kin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Al-Wasil is not the one who recompenses the good done to him by his relatives, but Al-Wasil is the one who keeps good relations with those relatives who had severed the bond of kinship with him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) came out towards us, while carrying Umamah, the daughter of Abi Al-As (his granddaughter) over his shoulder. He prayed, and when he wanted to bow, he put her down, and when he stood up, he lifted her up (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:A bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "You (people) kiss the boys! We don't kiss them." The Prophet said, "I cannot put mercy in your heart after Allah has taken it away from it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) took a child in his lap for Tahnik (i.e. he chewed a date in his mouth and put its juice in the mouth of the child). The child urinated on him, so he asked for water and poured it over the place of the urine (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usama bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to put me on (one of) his thighs and put Al-Hasan bin `Ali on his other thigh, and then embrace us and say, "O Allah! Please be Merciful to them, as I am merciful to them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I and the person who looks after an orphan and provides for him, will be in Paradise like this," putting his index and middle fingers together (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If any Muslim plants any plant and a human being or an animal eats of it, he will be rewarded as if he had given that much in charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "He who is not merciful to others, will not be treated mercifully (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "Gabriel continued to recommend me about treating the neighbors Kindly and politely so much so that I thought he would order me to make them as my heirs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrates Ibn `Umar:Allah' Apostle said, Gabriel kept on recommending me about treating the neighbors in a kind and polite manner, so much so that I thought that he would order (me) to make them (my) heirs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Shuraih:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe! By Allah, he does not believe!" It was said, "Who is that, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "That person whose neighbor does not feel safe from his evil (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Muslim ladies! A neighbouress should not look down upon the present of her neighbouress even it were the hooves of a sheep (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! I have two neighbors! To whom shall I send my gifts?" He said, "To the one whose gate in nearer to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, Enjoining, all that is good is a Sadaqa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:A bedouin urinated in the mosque and the people ran to (beat) him. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not interrupt his urination (i.e. let him finish)." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a tumbler of water and poured the water over the place of urine (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa: Whenever a beggar or a person in need came to the Prophet, the Prophet would say "Help and recommend him and you will receive the reward for it, and Allah will bring about what he will through His Prophet's tongue (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Masruq: Abdullah bin 'Amr mentioned Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying that he was neither a Fahish nor a Mutafahish. Abdullah bin 'Amr added, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'The best among you are those who have the best manners and character (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) was not one who would abuse (others) or say obscene words, or curse (others), and if he wanted to admonish anyone of us, he used to say: "What is wrong with him, his forehead be dusted (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Never was the Prophet (ﷺ) asked for a thing to be given for which his answer was 'no (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Masruq:We were sitting with `Abdullah bin `Amr who was narrating to us (Hadith): He said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither a Fahish nor a Mutafahhish, and he used to say, 'The best among you are the best in character (having good manners) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:I served the Prophet (ﷺ) for ten years, and he never said to me, "Uf" (a minor harsh word denoting impatience) and never blamed me by saying, "Why did you do so or why didn't you do so? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Aswad:I asked `Aisha what did the Prophet (ﷺ) use to do at home. She replied. "He used to keep himself busy serving his family and when it was time for the prayer, he would get up for prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zam`a:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade laughing at a person who passes wind, and said, "How does anyone of you beat his wife as he beats the stallion camel and then he may embrace (sleep with) her?" And Hisham said, "As he beats his slave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (i.e., an evil-doing), and killing him is Kufr (disbelief) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Dhar:That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If somebody accuses another of Fusuq (by calling him 'Fasiq' i.e. a wicked person) or accuses him of Kufr, such an accusation will revert to him (i.e. the accuser) if his companion (the accused) is innocent (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was neither a Fahish (one who had a bad tongue) nor a Sabbaba (one who abuses others) and he used to say while admonishing somebody, "What is wrong with him? May dust be on his forehead (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Usaid As-Sa`idi:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The best family among the Ansar is the Banu An-Najjar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A Qattat will not enter Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever does not give up false statements (i.e. telling lies), and evil deeds, and speaking bad words to others, Allah is not in need of his (fasting) leaving his food and drink (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The worst people in the Sight of Allah on the Day of Resurrection will be the double faced people who appear to some people with one face and to other people with another face (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man praising another man and he was exaggerating in his praise. The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to him). "You have destroyed (or cut) the back of the man (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I do not think that so-and-so and so-and-so know anything of our religion." (And Al-Laith said, "These two persons were among the hypocrites) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Laith:`Aisha said "The Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon me one day and said, 'O `Aisha! I do not think that so-and-so and so-and-so know anything of our religion which we follow (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Anas bin Malik said, "Any of the female slaves of Medina could take hold of the hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and take him wherever she wished (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:When `Abdur-Rahman came to us, the Prophet (ﷺ) established a bond of brotherhood between him and Sa`d bin Ar-Rabi`. Once the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "As you (O `Abdur-Rahman) have married, give a wedding banquet even if with one sheep (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Asim:I said to Anas bin Malik, "Did it reach you that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There is no treaty of brotherhood in Islam'?" Anas said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) made a treaty (of brotherhood) between the Ansar and the Quraish in my home (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I never saw the Prophet (ﷺ) laughing to an extent that one could see his palate, but he always used to smile only (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The signs of a hypocrite are three: Whenever he speaks, he tells a lie; and whenever he promises, he breaks his promise; and whenever he is entrusted, he betrays (proves to be dishonest) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Tariq:`Abdullah said, "The best talk is Allah's Book (Qur'an), and the best guidance is the guidance of Muhammad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: None is more patient than Allah against the harmful saying. He hears from the people they ascribe children to Him, yet He gives them health and (supplies them with) provision (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) was more shy than a virgin in her separate room. And if he saw a thing which he disliked, we would recognize that (feeling) in his face (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If a man says to his brother, O Kafir (disbeliever)!' Then surely one of them is such (i.e., a Kafir) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Umar: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'If anyone says to his brother, 'O misbeliever! Then surely, one of them such (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The strong is not the one who overcomes the people by his strength, but the strong is the one who controls himself while in anger (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:A man said to the Prophet (ﷺ) , "Advise me! "The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not become angry and furious." The man asked (the same) again and again, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said in each case, "Do not become angry and furious (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) was more shy (from Haya': pious shyness from committing religeous indiscretions) than a veiled virgin girl. (See Hadith No. 762, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas`ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'One of the sayings of the early Prophets which the people have got is: If you don't feel ashamed (from Haya': pious shyness from committing religeous indiscretions) do whatever you like." (See Hadith No 690, 691, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Make things easy for the people, and do not make it difficult for them, and make them calm (with glad tidings) and do not repulse (them) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to mix with us to the extent that he would say to a younger brother of mine, 'O Aba `Umair! What did the Nughair (a kind of bird) do? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A believer is not stung twice (by something) out of one and the same hole (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ubai bin Ka`b:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Some poetry contains wisdom (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jundub:While the Prophet (ﷺ) was walking, a stone hit his foot and stumbled and his toe was injured. He then (quoting a poetic verse) said, "You are not more than a toe which has been bathed in blood in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most true words said by a poet were the words of Labid. He said, i.e. 'Verily, everything except Allah is perishable and Umaiya bin Abi As-Salt was about to embrace Islam (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to Hassan, "Lampoon them (the pagans) in verse, and Gabriel is with you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "It is better for a man to fill the inside of his body with pus than to fill it with poetry (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ); said, "It is better for anyone of you that the inside of his body be filled with pus which may consume his body, than it be filled with poetry (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (a camel for sacrifice) and said (to him). "Ride it." The man said, "It is a Bandana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it." The man said, "It is a Bandana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, Ride on it, woe to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw a man driving a Badana (a camel for sacrifice) and said to him, "Ride on it." The man said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! It is a Bandana." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ride on it, woe to you!" on the second or third time (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wailakum" (woe to you) or "waihakum" (May Allah be merciful to you)." Shu`ba is not sure as to which was the right word. "Do not become disbelievers after me by cutting the necks of one another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mas`ud:A man came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! What do you say about a man who loves some people but cannot catch up with their good deeds?" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:It was said to the Prophet; , "A man may love some people but he cannot catch up with their good deeds?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everyone will be with those whom he loves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to Ibn Saiyad "I have hidden something for you in my mind; What is it?" He said, "Ad-Dukh." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ikhsa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every betrayer (perfidious person), a flag will be raised on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be announced (publicly) 'This is the betrayal (perfidy) of so-and-so, the son of so-and-so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A flag will be fixed on the Day of Resurrection for every betrayer, and it will be announced (publicly in front of everybody), 'This is the betrayal (perfidy) so-and-so, the son of soand- so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say Khabuthat Nafsi, but he is recommended to say 'Laqisat Nafsi (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sal:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say Khabuthat Nafsi but he is recommended to say 'Laqisat Nafsi (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, "The offspring of Adam abuse the Dahr (Time), and I am the Dahr; in My Hands are the night and the day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Don't call the grapes Al-Karm, and don't say 'Khaibat-ad-Dahri, for Allah is the Dahr. (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "They say Al-Karm (the generous), and in fact Al-Karm is the heart of a believer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:A boy was born for a man among us, and the man named him Al-Qasim. We said to him, "We will not call you Abu-l-Qasim, nor will we respect you for that." The Prophet (ﷺ) was informed about that, and he said, "Name your son `Abdur-Rahman (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu-l-Qasim (The Prophet) said, "Name yourselves by my name, but do not call yourselves by my Kuniya (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Zainab's original name was "Barrah," but it was said' "By that she is giving herself the prestige of piety." So the Prophet (ﷺ) changed her name to Zainab (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Isma`il:I asked Abi `Aufa, "Did you see Ibrahim, the son of the Prophet (ﷺ) ?" He said, "Yes, but he died in his early childhood. Had there been a Prophet after Muhammad then his son would have lived, but there is no Prophet after him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:When Ibrahim (the son of the Prophet) died, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There is a wet nurse for him in Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:I got a son and I took him to the Prophet (ﷺ) who named him Ibrahim, and put in his mouth the juice of a date fruit (which be himself had chewed?, and invoked for Allah's blessing upon him, and then gave him back to me. He was the eldest son of Abii Musa) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shuba:Solar eclipse occurred on the day of Ibrahim's death (the Prophet's son) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:(the wife the Prophet) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Aisha! This is Gabriel sending his greetings to you." I said, "Peace, and Allah's Mercy be on him." `Aisha added: The Prophet (ﷺ) used to see things which we used not to see (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Once Um Sulaim was (with the women who were) in charge of the luggage on a journey, and Anjashah, the slave of the Prophet, was driving their camels (very fast). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Anjash! Drive slowly (the camels) with the glass vessels (i.e., ladies) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The most awful name in Allah's sight on the Day of Resurrection, will be (that of) a man calling himself Malik Al-Amlak (the king of kings) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) was on one of his journeys, and the driver of the camels started chanting (to let the camels go fast). The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him. "(Take care) Drive slowly with the glass vessels, O Anjasha! Waihaka (May Allah be Merciful to you) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) had a Had (a camel driver) called Anjasha, and he had a nice voice. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him, "(Drive) slowly, O Anjasha! Do not break the glass vessels!" And Qatada said, "(By vessels') he meant the weak women (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:There was a state of fear in Medina. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) rode a horse belonging to Abu Talha (in order to see the matter). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We could not see anything, and we found that horse like a sea (fast in speed) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the throwing of stones (with the thumb and the index or middle finger), and said "It neither hunts a game nor kills (or hurts) an enemy, but it gouges out an eye or breaks a tooth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The young should greet the old, the passer by should greet the sitting one, and the small group of persons should greet the large group of persons (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The riding one should greet the walking one, and the walking one should greet the sitting one, and the small number of persons should greet the large number of persons (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The riding person should greet the walking one, and the walking one should greet the sitting one, and the small number of persons should greet the large number of persons (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The younger person should greet the older one, and the walking person should greet the sitting one, and the small number of persons should greet the large number of persons (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr: A man asked the Prophet, "What Islamic traits are the best?" The Prophet said, "Feed the people, and greet those whom you know and those whom you do not know (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:A man peeped into a room of the Prophet. The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up, holding an arrow head. It is as if I am just looking at him, trying to stab the man (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) greeted somebody, he used to greet him three times, and if he spoke a sentence, he used to repeat it thrice (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that he passed by a group of boys and greeted them and said, "The Prophet (ﷺ) used to do so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O `Aisha! This is Gabriel sending his greetings to you." I said, "Peace, and Allah's Mercy be on him (Gabriel). You see what we do not see." (She was addressing Allah's Apostle) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) in order to consult him regarding my father's debt. When I knocked on the door, he asked, "Who is that?" I replied, "I" He said, "I, I?" He repeated it as if he disliked it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (in the above narration No. 268), "And then raise your head till you feel at ease while sitting (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "Gabriel sends Salam (greetings) to you." She replied, "Wa 'alaihi-s- Salam Wa Rahmatu-l-lah." (Peace and Allah's Mercy be on him) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Jews greet you, they usually say, 'As-Samu 'alaikum (Death be on you),' so you should say (in reply to them), 'Wa'alaikum (And on you) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If the people of the Scripture greet you, then you should say (in reply), 'Wa'alaikum (And on you) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:I asked Anas, "Was it a custom of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) to shake hands with one another?" He said, "Yes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Hisham:We were in the company of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he was holding the hand of `Umar bin Al-Khattab (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A man should not make another man get up from his (the latter's) seat (in a gathering) in order to sit there (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade that a man should be made to get up from his seat so that another might sit on it, but one should make room and spread out. Ibn `Umar disliked that a man should get up from his seat and then somebody else sit at his place (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the courtyard of the Ka`ba in the Ihtiba.' posture putting his hand round his legs like this (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Shall I inform you of the biggest of the great sins?" They said, "Yes, O Allah's Apostle!" He said, "To join partners in worship with Allah, and to be undutiful to one's parents (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Bishr:as above (No. 290) adding: The Prophet (ﷺ) was reclining (leaning) and then he sat up saying, "And I warn you against giving a false statement." And he kept on saying that warning so much so that we said, "Would that he had stopped (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the `Asr prayer and then he walked quickly and entered his house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:We used to have a midday nap and take our meals after the Jumua (prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dresses and two kinds of bargains; Ishtimal As-Samma and Al- Ihtiba in one garment with no part of it covering one's private parts. (The two kinds of bargains were:) Al-Mulamasa and Al-Munabadha (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated the uncle of `Abbas bin Tamim:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lying on his back in the mosque and putting one of his legs over the other (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:the Prophet (ﷺ) said "When three persons are together, then no two of them should hold secret counsel excluding the third person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) confided to me a secret which I did not disclose to anybody after him. And Um Sulaim asked me (about that secret) but I did not tell her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When you are three persons sitting together, then no two of you should hold secret counsel excluding the third person until you are with some other people too, for that would grieve him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Iqama for the prayer was announced while a man was talking to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) privately. He continued talking in that way till the Prophet's companions slept, and afterwards the Prophet (ﷺ) got up and offered the prayer with them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not keep the fire burning in your houses when you go to bed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:One night a house in Medina was burnt with its occupants. The Prophet (ﷺ) spoke about them, saying, "This fire is indeed your enemy, so whenever you go to bed, put it out to protect yourselves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "(At bedtime) cover the utensils, close the doors, and put out the lights, lest the evil creature (the rat) should pull away the wick and thus burn the people of the house (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:Allah s Apostle said, "When you intend going to bed at night, put out the lights, close the doors, tie the mouths of the water skins, and cover your food and drinks." Hamrnam said, "I think he (the other narrator) added, 'even with piece of wood across the utensil (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said "Five things are in accordance with Al Fitra (i.e. the tradition of prophets): to be circumcised, to shave the pelvic region, to pull out the hair of the armpits, to cut short the moustaches, and to clip the nails (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said "The Prophet) Abraham circumcised himself after he had passed the age of eighty years and he circumcised himself with an adze (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Sa'id ibn Jubair said, "Ibn 'Abbas said, 'When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, I had already been circumcised (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:During the life-time of the Prophet (ﷺ) I built a house with my own hands so that it might protect me from the rain and shade me from the sun; and none of Allah's creatures assisted me in building it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "For every prophet there is one (special invocation (that will not be rejected) with which he appeals (to Allah), and I want to keep such an invocation for interceding for my followers in the Hereafter (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying." By Allah! I ask for forgiveness from Allah and turn to Him in repentance more than seventy times a day (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah is more pleased with the repentance of His slave than anyone of you is pleased with finding his camel which he had lost in the desert (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray eleven rak`at in the late part of the night, and when dawn appeared, he would offer two rak`at and then lie on his right side till the Muadhdhin came to inform him (that the morning prayer was due) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed, he would say: "Bismika amutu wa ahya." and when he got up he would say:" Al-hamdu li l-lahil-ladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana wa ilaihin-nushur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed at night, he would put his hand under his cheek and then say, "Allahumma bismika amutu wa ahya," and when he got up, he would say, "Al-Hamdu lil-lahi al-ladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana, wa ilaihi an-nushur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to blow on his hands while reciting the Mu'auwidhat ( i.e. Suratal-Falaq 113 and Surat-an-Nas 114) and then pass his hands over his body (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) went to the lavatory, he used to say: "Allahumma inni a`udhu bika min al-khubuthi wal khaba'ith (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Dhar:Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) lay on his bed, he used to say: "Allahumma bismika amutu wa ahya," and when he woke up he would say: "Al-hamdu lil-lahilladhi ahyana ba'da ma an atana, wa ilaihi an-nushur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Verse: 'Neither say your prayer aloud, nor say it in a low tone.' (17.110) was revealed as regards invocation (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:Whenever a man brought his alms to the Prophet, the Prophet (ﷺ) would say, "O Allah! Bestow Your Blessing upon the family of so-and-so." When my father came to him (with his alms), he said, "O Allah! Bestow Your Blessings upon the family of Abi `Aufa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Um Sulaim said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Anas is your servant." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! increase his wealth and offspring, and bless (for him) what ever you give him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) heard a man reciting (the Qur'an) in the mosque. He said," May Allah bestow His Mercy on him, as he made me remember such and-such Verse which I had missed in such-and-such Sura (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you appeal to Allah for something, he should ask with determination and should not say, 'O Allah, if You wish, give me.', for nobody can force Allah to do something against His Will (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should say: 'O Allah, forgive me if You wish; O Allah, be merciful to me if You wish,' but he should always appeal to Allah with determination, for nobody can force Allah to do something against His Will (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The invocation of anyone of you is granted (by Allah) if he does not show impatience (by saying, "I invoked Allah but my request has not been granted) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas, "The Prophet (ﷺ) raised his hands (in invocation) till I saw the whiteness of his armpits (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to this Musalla (praying place) to offer the prayer of Istisqa.' He invoked Allah for rain and then faced the Qibla and turned his Rida' (upper garment) inside out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:My mother said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Please invoke Allah on behalf of your servant." He said, "O Allah! Increase his wealth and children, and bestow Your Blessing on whatever You give him." a time of distress (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah at the time of distress, saying, "La ilaha illal-lahu Al-`Azim, al- Halim, La ilaha illal-lahu Rabbu-s-samawati wal-ard wa Rabbu-l-arsh il-azim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say at a time of distress, "La ilaha illal-lahu Rabbul-l-'arsh il-'azim, La ilaha illallahu Rabbu-s-samawati wa Rabbu-l-ard, Rabbu-l-'arsh-il-Karim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais:I came to Khabbab who had been branded with seven brands(1) and he said, "Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) not forbidden us to invoke (Allah) for death, I would have invoked (Allah) for it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais:I came to Khabbab who had been branded with seven brands over his `Abdomen, and I heard him saying, "If the Prophet: had not forbidden us to invoke (Allah) for death, I would have invoked Allah for it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said," None of you should long for death because of a calamity that had befallen him, and if he cannot, but long for death, then he should say, 'O Allah! Let me live as long as life is better for me, and take my life if death is better for me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi:On whose face Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had thrown water from his mouth, the water having been taken from their well while he was still a young boy (who has not yet attained the age of puberty) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The boys used to be brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he used to invoke for Allah's blessing upon them. Once an infant was brought to him and it urinated on his clothes. He asked for water and poured it over the place of the urine and did not wash his clothes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Tha`laba bin Su'air:whose eye Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had touched, that he had seen Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas offering one rak`a only for the witr prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "O Allah! If I should ever abuse a believer, please let that be a means of bringing him near to You on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Khalid bint Khalid:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) seeking refuge with Allah from the punishment of the grave (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Prophet used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from incapacity and laziness, from cowardice and geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from the punishment of the grave, and I seek refuge with You from the afflictions of life and death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from worry and grief, from incapacity and laziness, from cowardice and miserliness, from being heavily in debt and from being overpowered by (other) men." (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to seek refuge with Allah saying, "O Allah! I seek refuge with You from laziness, and seek refuge with You from cowardice, and seek refuge with You from geriatric old age, and seek refuge with You from miserliness (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Make us love Medina as You made us love Mecca, or more, and transfer the fever that is in it, to Al-Juhfa. O Allah! Bless our Mudd and our Sam' (kinds of measures) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Sulaim:that she said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Anas is your servant, so please invoke for Allah's blessing for him." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring and bless (for him) whatever You give him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Um Sulaim:that she said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Anas is your servant, so please invoke for Allah's blessing for him." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring and bless (for him) whatever You give him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Um Sulaim said (to the Prophet), "Anas is your servant; so please invoke for Allah's blessings for him." He said "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring, and Bless (for him) whatever You give him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Um Sulaim said (to the Prophet), "Anas is your servant; so please invoke for Allah's blessings for him." He said "O Allah! Increase his wealth and offspring, and Bless (for him) whatever You give him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The most frequent invocation of The Prophet (ﷺ) was: "O Allah! Give to us in the world that which is good and in the Hereafter that which is good, and save us from the torment of the Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked for Allah's wrath upon the Ahzab (confederates), saying, "O Allah, the Revealer of the Holy Book, and the One swift at reckoning! Defeat the confederates; Defeat them and shake them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to invoke Allah, saying, "Allahumma ighfirli khati'ati wa jahli wa israfi fi `Amri, wa ma anta a-'lamu bihi minni. Allahumma ighfirli hazali wa jiddi wa khata'i wa amdi, wa kullu dhalika 'indi (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When the Imam says 'Amin', then you should all say 'Amin', for the angels say 'Amin' at that time, and he whose 'Amin' coincides with the 'Amin' of the angels, all his past sins will be forgiven (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever says, 'Subhan Allah wa bihamdihi,' one hundred times a day, will be forgiven all his sins even if they were as much as the foam of the sea (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There are two expressions which are very easy for the tongue to say, but they are very heavy in the balance and are very dear to The Beneficent (Allah), and they are, 'Subhan Allah Al- `Azim and 'Subhan Allah wa bihamdihi (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The example of the one who celebrates the Praises of his Lord (Allah) in comparison to the one who does not celebrate the Praises of his Lord, is that of a living creature compared to a dead one (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah has ninety-nine Names, i.e., one hundred minus one, and whoever believes in their meanings and acts accordingly, will enter Paradise; and Allah is witr (one) and loves 'the witr' (i.e., odd numbers) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "There are two blessings that many people are deceived into losing: health and free time (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! There is no life worth living except the life of the Hereafter, so (please) make righteous the Ansar and the Emigrants (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) drew a few lines and said, "This is (man's) hope, and this is the instant of his death, and while he is in this state (of hope), the nearer line (death) comes to Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not accept the excuse of any person whose instant of death is delayed till he is sixty years of age (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "The heart of an old man remains young in two respects, i.e., his love for the world (its wealth, amusements and luxuries) and his incessant hope (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The son of Adam (i.e. man) grows old and so also two (desires) grow old with him, i.e., love for wealth and (a wish for) a long life (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mahmud bin Ar-Rabi'a:I remember that the Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took water from a bucket (which was in our home used for getting water out of well) with his mouth (and threw it on my face) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah says, 'I have nothing to give but Paradise as a reward to my believer slave, who, if I cause his dear friend (or relative) to die, remains patient (and hopes for Allah's Reward) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais:I came to Khabbab while he was building a wall, and he (Khabbab) said, "Our companions who have left this world, did not enjoy anything of their reward therein, while we have collected after them, much wealth that we cannot spend but on earth (i.e., on building) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Khabbab:We migrated with the Prophet..(This narration is related in the chapter of migration) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mirdas Al-Aslami:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The righteous (pious people will depart (die) in succession one after the other, and there will remain (on the earth) useless people like the useless husk of barley seeds or bad dates (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perish the slave of Dinar, Dirham, Qatifa (thick soft cloth), and Khamisa (a garment), for if he is given, he is pleased; otherwise he is dissatisfied (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "If the son of Adam (the human being) had two valleys of money, he would wish for a third, for nothing can fill the belly of Adam's son except dust, and Allah forgives him who repents to Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Adam's son had a valley full of gold, he would like to have two valleys, for nothing fills his mouth except dust. And Allah forgives him who repents to Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Ubayy said (referring to the hadith above), "We considered this as a saying from the Qur'an till the Surah (beginning with):"The mutual rivalry (for piling up of worldly things) diverts you' (102:1) was revealed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah Apostle said, "If I had gold equal to the mountain of Uhud, it would not please me that anything of it should remain with me after three nights (i.e., I would spend all of it in Allah's Cause) except what I would keep for repaying debts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Wealth is not in having many possessions, but rather (true) wealth is feeling sufficiency in the soul (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran bin Husain:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked into Paradise and found that the majority of its dwellers were the poor people, and I looked into the (Hell) Fire and found that the majority of its dwellers were women (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) did not eat at a table till he died, and he did not eat a thin nicely baked wheat bread till he died (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:When the Prophet (ﷺ) died, nothing which can be eaten by a living creature was left on my shelf except some barley grain. I ate of it for a period and when I measured it, it finished (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The family of Muhammad had never eaten their fill of wheat bread for three successive days since they had migrated to Medina till the death of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The family of Muhammad did not eat two meals on one day, but one of the two was of dates (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The bed mattress of the Prophet (ﷺ) was made of a leather case stuffed with palm fibres (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qatada:We used to go to Anas bin Malik and see his baker standing (preparing the bread). Anas said, "Eat. I have not known that the Prophet (ﷺ) ever saw a thin well-baked loaf of bread till he died, and he never saw a roasted sheep with his eyes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:A complete month would pass by during which we would not make a fire (for cooking), and our food used to be only dates and water unless we were given a present of some meat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Give food to the family of Muhammad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The most beloved action to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was that whose doer did it continuously and regularly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do good deeds properly, sincerely and moderately and know that your deeds will not make you enter Paradise, and that the most beloved deed to Allah is the most regular and constant even if it were little (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked, "What deeds are loved most by Allah?" He said, "The most regular constant deeds even though they may be few." He added, 'Don't take upon yourselves, except the deeds which are within your ability (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray so much that his feet used to become edematous or swollen, and when he was asked as to why he prays so much, he would say, "Shall I not be a thankful slave (to Allah)? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Seventy thousand people of my followers will enter Paradise without accounts, and they are those who do not practice Ar-Ruqya and do not see an evil omen in things, and put their trust in their Lord (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever can guarantee (the chastity of) what is between his two jaw-bones and what is between his two legs (i.e. his tongue and his private parts), I guarantee Paradise for him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:That he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "A slave of Allah may utter a word without thinking whether it is right or wrong, he may slip down in the Fire as far away a distance equal to that between the east (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said Allah will give shade to seven (types of people) under His Shade (on the Day of Resurrection). (one of them will be) a person who remembers Allah and his eyes are then flooded with tears (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim is the one who avoids harming Muslims with his tongue or his hands. And a Muhajir (an emigrant) is the one who gives up (abandons) all what Allah has forbidden (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If you knew that which I know you would laugh little and weep much (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If you knew that which I know, you would laugh little and weep much (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The (Hell) Fire is surrounded by all kinds of desires and passions, while Paradise is surrounded by all kinds of disliked undesirable things (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Paradise is nearer to any of you than the Shirak (leather strap) of his shoe, and so is the (Hell) Fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The truest poetic verse ever said by a poet, is: Indeed! Everything except Allah, is perishable (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you looked at a person who was made superior to him in property and (in good) appearance, then he should also look at the one who is inferior to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ghailan:Anas said "You people do (bad) deeds (commit sins) which seem in your eyes as tiny (minute) than hair while we used to consider those (very deeds) during the life-time of the Prophet (ﷺ) as destructive sins (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When honesty is lost, then wait for the Hour." It was asked, "How will honesty be lost, O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)?" He said, "When authority is given to those who do not deserve it, then wait for the Hour (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "People are just like camels, out of one hundred, one can hardly find a single camel suitable to ride (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two," showing his two fingers and sticking (separating) them out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two (fingers) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I have been sent and the Hour (is at hand) as these two (fingers) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever loves to meet Allah, Allah loves to meet him; and whoever hates to meet Allah, Allah hates to meet him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Relieved or relieving. And a believer is relieved (by death) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When anyone of you dies, his destination is displayed before him in the forenoon and in the afternoon, either in the (Hell) Fire or in Paradise, and it is said to him, "That is your place till you are resurrected and sent to it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not abuse the dead, for they have reached the result of what they have done (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will take the whole earth (in His Hand) and will roll up the Heaven in His right Hand, and then He will say, "I am King! Where are the kings of the earth ? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The people will be gathered on the Day of Resurrection on reddish white land like a pure loaf of bread (made of pure fine flour)." Sahl added: That land will have no landmarks for anybody (to make use of) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will meet Allah barefooted, naked, walking on feet, and uncircumcised (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was delivering a sermon on a pulpit, saying, "You will meet Allah barefooted, naked, and uncircumcised (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The people will be gathered barefooted, naked, and uncircumcised." I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Will the men and the women look at each other?" He said, "The situation will be too hard for them to pay attention to that (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (regarding the Verse), "A Day when all mankind will stand before the Lord of the Worlds,' (that day) they will stand, drowned in their sweat up to the middle of their ears (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The people will sweat so profusely on the Day of Resurrection that their sweat will sink seventy cubits deep into the earth, and it will rise up till it reaches the people's mouths and ears (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The cases which will be decided first (on the Day of Resurrection) will be the cases of blood-shedding (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " It will be said to the people of Paradise, 'O people of Paradise! Eternity (for you) and no death,' and to the people of the Fire, 'O people of the Fire, eternity (for you) and no death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I looked into paradise and saw that the majority of its people were the poor, and I looked into the Fire and found that the majority of its people were women (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The width between the two shoulders of a Kafir (disbeliever) will be equal to the distance covered by a fast rider in three days (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa'd: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "In Paradise there is a tree so big that in its shade a rider may travel for one hundred years without being able to cross it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'id: The Prophet (ﷺ) said: There is a tree in Paradise (so huge) that a fast (or a trained) rider may travel: for one hundred years without being able to cross it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The people of Paradise will see the Ghuraf (special abodes) in Paradise as you see a star in the sky (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Sa`id added:"As you see a glittering star remaining in the eastern horizon and the western horizon (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will come out of the Fire after they have received a touch of the Fire, changing their color, and they will enter Paradise, and the people of Paradise will name them 'Al- Jahannamiyin' the (Hell) Fire people (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated An-Nu`man:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "The person who will have the least punishment from amongst the Hell Fire people on the Day of Resurrection, will be a man under whose arch of the feet a smoldering ember will be placed so that his brain will boil because of it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran bin Husain:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will be taken out of the Fire through the intercession of Muhammad they will enter Paradise and will be called Al-Jahannamiyin (the Hell Fire people) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abbas:that he said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Did you benefit Abu Talib with anything? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "There will be a tank (Lake-Fount) in front of you as large as the distance between Jarba and Adhruh (two towns in Sham) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The width of my Lake-Fount is equal to the distance between Aila (a town in Sham) and Sana' (the capital of Yemen) and it has as many (numerous) jugs as the number of stars of the sky (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and my pulpit there is a garden from amongst the gardens of Paradise, and my pulpit is over my Lake-Fount (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jundab:I heard the Prophet, saying, "I am your predecessor at the Lake-Fount. (Al-Kauthar) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Haritha bin Wahb:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning the Lake-Fount (Al-Kauthar), saying, "(The width of the Lake-Fount) is equal to the distance between Medina and Sana' (capital of Yemen) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) ; was asked about the offspring of the pagans. He said, "Allah knows what they would have done (were they to live) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about the offspring of the pagans. He said, "Allah knows what they would have done (were they to live) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "No woman should ask for the divorce of her sister (Muslim) so as to take her place, but she should marry the man (without compelling him to divorce his other wife), for she will have nothing but what Allah has written for her (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade vowing and said, "In fact, vowing does not prevent anything, but it makes a miser to spend his property (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said (that Allah said), "Vowing does not bring to the son of Adam anything I have not already written in his fate, but vowing is imposed on him by way of fore ordainment. Through vowing I make a miser spend of his wealth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take refuge with Allah from the difficulties of severe calamities, from having an evil end and a bad fate and from the malicious joy of your enemies (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:When taking an oath, the Prophet (ﷺ) very often used to say, "No, by Him Who turns the hearts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Abu Bakr As-Siddiq had never broken his oaths till Allah revealed the expiation for the oaths. Then he said, "If I take an oath to do something and later on I find something else better than the first one, then I do what is better and make expiation for my oath (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last in the world, but will be foremost on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) also said:"By Allah, if anyone of you insists on fulfilling an oath by which he may harm his family, he commits a greater sin in Allah's sight than that of dissolving his oath and making expiation for it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Anyone who takes an oath through which his family may be harmed, and insists on keeping it, he surely commits a sin greater (than that of dissolving his oath). He should rather compensate for that oath by making expiation (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The oath of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be: "No, by Him who turns the hearts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samura:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If Caesar is ruined, there will be no Caesar after him; and if Khosrau is ruined, there will be no Khosrau, after him; and, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, surely you will spend their treasures in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Khosrau is ruined, there will be no Khosrau after him; and if Caesar is ruined, there will be no Caesar after him. By Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, surely you will spend their treasures in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "O followers of Muhammad! By Allah, if you knew what I know, you would weep much and laugh little (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu-l-Qasim (the Prophet) said, "By Him in Whose Hand Muhammad's soul is, if you know that which I know, you would weep much and laugh little (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Perform the bowing and the prostration properly (with peace of mind), for, by Him in Whose Hand my soul is, I see you from behind my back when you bow and when you prostrate (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:An Ansari woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) in the company of her children, and the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her, "By Him in Whose Hand my soul is, you are the most beloved people to me!" And he repeated the statement thrice (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear by your fathers (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever swears saying in his oath. 'By Al-Lat and Al-`Uzza,' should say, 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah; and whoever says to his friend, 'Come, let me gamble with you,' should give something in charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to help others to fulfill the oaths (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Any Muslim who has lost three of his children will not be touched by the Fire except that which will render Allah's oath fulfilled (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah forgives my followers those (evil deeds) their souls may whisper or suggest to them as long as they do not act (on it) or speak (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody eats something forgetfully while he is fasting, then he should complete his fast, for Allah has made him eat and drink (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ubai bin Ka'b: that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "(Moses) said, 'Call me not to account for what I forget and be not hard upon me for my affair (with you)' (18.73) the first excuse of Moses was his forgetfulness (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The biggest sins are: To join others in worship with Allah; to be undutiful to one's parents; to kill somebody unlawfully; and to take an oath Al-Ghamus (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Musaiyab:When the death of Abu Talib approached, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to him and said, "Say: La ilaha illallah, a word with which I will be able to defend you before Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sauda:(the wife of the Prophet) One of our sheep died and we tanned its skin and kept on infusing dates in it till it was a worn out water skin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The family of (the Prophet) Muhammad never ate wheat-bread with meat for three consecutive days to their fill, till he met Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin Al-Harith:that he heard Ibn `Umar saying, "Weren't people forbidden to make vows?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, 'A vow neither hastens nor delays anything, but by the making of vows, some of the wealth of a miser is taken out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the making of vows and said, "It (a vow) does not prevent anything (that has to take place), but the property of a miser is spent (taken out) with it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever vows that he will be obedient to Allah, should remain obedient to Him; and whoever made a vow that he will disobey Allah, should not disobey Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`id bin 'Ubada Al-Ansari:that he consulted the Prophet (ﷺ) about a vow that had been made by his mother who died without fulfilling it. The Prophet (ﷺ) gave his verdict that he should fulfill it on her behalf. The verdict became Sunna (i.e. the Prophet's tradition) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever vowed to be obedient to Allah, must be obedient to Him; and whoever vowed to be disobedient to Allah, should not be disobedient to Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah is not in need of this man) torturing himself," when he saw the man walking between his two sons (who were supporting him) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man performing Tawaf around the Ka`ba, tied with a rope or something else (while another person was holding him). The Prophet (ﷺ) cut that rope off (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:While performing the Tawaf around the Ka`ba, the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a person leading another person by a hair-rope nose-ring in his nose. The Prophet (ﷺ) cut the hair-rope nose-ring off with his hand and ordered the man to lead him by the hand (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Ju'aid bin `Abdur-Rahman:As-Sa'ib bin Yazid said, "The Sa' at the time of the Prophet (ﷺ) was equal to one Mudd plus one-third of a Mudd of your time, and then it was increased in the time of Caliph `Umar bin `Abdul `Aziz (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Bestow Your Blessings on their measures, Sa' and Mudd (i.e., of the people of Medina) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:that she intended to buy Barira (a slave girl) and her masters stipulated that they would have her Wala'. When `Aisha mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ) ; he said, "Buy her, for the Wala' is for the one who manumits (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hammad:the same narration above (i.e. 709), "I make expiation for my dissolved oath, and I do what is better, or do what is better and make expiation (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Our (Apostles') property should not be inherited, and whatever we leave, is to be spent in charity (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Not even a single Dinar of my property should be distributed (after my deaths to my inheritors, but whatever I leave excluding the provision for my wives and my servants, should be spent in charity) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Give the Fara'id (the shares of the inheritance that are prescribed in the Qur'an) to those who are entitled to receive it. Then whatever remains, should be given to the closest male relative of the deceased (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Give the Fara'id (shares prescribed in the Qur'an) to those who are entitled to receive it; and whatever remains, should be given to the closest male relative of the deceased (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Give the Fara'id, (the shares prescribed in the Qur'an) to those who are entitled to receive it, and then whatever remains, should be given to the closest male relative of the deceased (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Huzail:`Abdullah said, "The judgment I will give in this matter will be like the judgment of the Prophet, i.e. one-half is for the daughter and one-sixth for the son's daughter and the rest of the inheritance for the sister (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:The last Qur'anic Verse that was revealed (to the Prophet) was the final Verse of Surat-an-Nisa, i.e., 'They ask you for a legal verdict Say: Allah directs (thus) About those who leave No descendants or ascendants as heirs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Give the Fara'id (the shares of the inheritance that are prescribed in the Qur'an) to those who are entitled to receive it; and whatever is left should be given to the closest male relative of the deceased (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The boy is for the owner of the bed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Wala' is for the manumitted (of the slave) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Muslims did not free slaves as Sa'iba, but the People of the Pre-lslamic Period of Ignorance used to do so (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the selling of the Wala' (of slaves) or giving it as a present (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:When Aisha intended to buy Barira, she said to the Prophet, "Barira's masters stipulated that they will have the Wala." The Prophet (ﷺ) said (to Aisha), "Buy her, as the Wala is for the one who manumits (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The wala is for the one who gives the silver (pays the price) and does the favor (of manumission after paying the price) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The freed slave belongs to the people who have freed him," or said something similar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The son of the sister of some people is from them or from their own selves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, " If somebody dies (among the Muslims) leaving some property, the property will go to his heirs; and if he leaves a debt or dependants, we will take care of them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usama bin Zaid:the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim cannot be the heir of a disbeliever, nor can a disbeliever be the heir of a Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not deny your fathers (i.e. claim to be the sons of persons other than your fathers), and whoever denies his father, is charged with disbelief (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) beat a drunk with palm-leaf stalks and shoes. And Abu Bakr gave (such a sinner) forty lashes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Uqba bin Al-Harith:An-Nu`man or the son of An-Nu`man was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) on a charge of drunkenness. So the Prophet ordered all the men present in the house, to beat him. So all of them beat him, and I was also one of them who beat him with shoes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) lashed a drunk with dateleaf stalks and shoes. And Abu Bakr gave a drunk forty lashes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When (a person) an adulterer commits illegal sexual intercourse then he is not a believer at the time he is doing it; and when somebody steals, then he is not a believer at the time he is stealing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand should be cut off for stealing something that is worth a quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand of a thief should be cut off for stealing a quarter of a Dinar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The hand should be cut off for stealing a quarter of a Dinar (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The hand of a thief was not cut off during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) except for stealing something equal to a shield in value. A similar hadith is narrated from `Aisha through another chain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:A thief's hand was not cut off for stealing something cheaper than a Hajafa or a Turs (two kinds of shields), each of which was worth a (respectable) price (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:A thief's hand was not cut off for stealing something worth less than the price of a shield, whether a Turs or Hajafa (two kinds of shields), each of which was worth a (respectable) price (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) cutoff the hand of a thief for stealing a shield that was worth three Dirhams (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah 's Apostle said, "Allah curses the thief who steals an egg (or a helmet) for which his hand is to be cut off, or steals a rope, for which his hand is to be cut off (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a lady, and that lady used to come to me, and I used to convey her message to the Prophet (ﷺ) and she repented, and her repentance was sincere (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) cut off the hands and feet of the men belonging to the tribe of `Uraina and did not cauterise (their bleeding limbs) till they died (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever guarantees me (the chastity of) what is between his legs (i.e. his private parts), and what is between his jaws (i.e., his tongue), I guarantee him Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ash-Shu`bi:from `Ali when the latter stoned a lady to death on a Friday. `Ali said, "I have stoned her according to the tradition of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ash Shaibani:I asked `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa, 'Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) carry out the Rajam penalty ( i.e., stoning to death)?' He said, "Yes." I said, "Before the revelation of Surat-an-Nur or after it?" He replied, "I don't Know (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The boy is for (the owner of) the bed and the stone is for the person who commits illegal sexual intercourse (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) ordering that an unmarried person guilty of illegal sexual intercourse be flogged one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year. `Umar bin Al-Khattab also exiled such a person, and this tradition is still valid (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) ordering that an unmarried person guilty of illegal sexual intercourse be flogged one-hundred stripes and be exiled for one year. `Umar bin Al-Khattab also exiled such a person, and this tradition is still valid (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) judged that the unmarried person who was guilty of illegal sexual intercourse be exiled for one year and receive the legal punishment (i.e., be flogged with one-hundred stripes) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) cursed the effeminate men and those women who assume the similitude (manners) of men. He also said, "Turn them out of your houses." He turned such-and-such person out, and `Umar also turned out such-and-such person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Abu Bakr came to towards me and struck me violently with his fist and said, "You have detained the people because of your necklace." But I remained motionless as if I was dead lest I should awake Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) although that hit was very painful (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Burda:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "Nobody should be flogged more than ten stripes except if he is guilty of a crime, the legal punishment of which is assigned by Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur-Rahman bin Jabir:On the authority of others, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No Punishment exceeds the flogging of the ten stripes, except if one is guilty of a crime necessitating a legal punishment prescribed by Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Burda Al-Ansari:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Do not flog anyone more than ten stripes except if he is involved in a crime necessitating Allah's legal Punishment (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Those people who used to buy foodstuff at random (without weighing or measuring it) were beaten in the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) if they sold it at the very place where they had bought it, till they carried it to their dwelling places (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never took revenge for his own self in any matter presented to him till Allah's limits were exceeded, in which case he would take revenge for Allah's sake (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Abu-l-Qasim (the Prophet) saying, "If somebody slanders his slave and the slave is free from what he says, he will be flogged on the Day of Resurrection unless the slave is really as he has described him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A faithful believer remains at liberty regarding his religion unless he kills somebody unlawfully (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:One of the evil deeds with bad consequence from which there is no escape for the one who is involved in it is to kill someone unlawfully (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The first cases to be decided among the people (on the Day of Resurrection) will be those of blood-shed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "No human being is killed unjustly, but a part of responsibility for the crime is laid on the first son of Adam who invented the tradition of killing (murdering) on the earth. (It is said that he was Qabil) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "After me (i.e. after my death), do not become disbelievers, by striking (cutting) the necks of one another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Zur'a bin `Amr bin Jarir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said during Hajjat-al-Wada`, "Let the people be quiet and listen to me. After me, do not become disbelievers, by striking (cutting) the necks of one another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever carries arms against us, is not from us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) killed a Jew for killing a girl in order to take her ornaments (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Yahya:Humaid said, "A man peeped into the house of the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) aimed an arrow head at him to hit him." I asked, "Who told you that?" He said, "Anas bin Malik" (See Hadith No. 258 and 259, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ya`la:I went out in one of the Ghazwa and a man bit another man and as a result, an incisor tooth of the former was pulled out. The Prophet (ﷺ) cancelled the case (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The daughter of An-Nadr slapped a girl and broke her incisor tooth. They (the relatives of that girl), came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he gave the order of Qisas (equality in punishment) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "This and this are the same." He meant the little finger and the thumb (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas: A man peeped into one of the dwelling places of the Prophet. The Prophet got up and aimed a sharp-edged arrow head (or wooden stick) at him to poke him stealthily (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Abul Qasim said, "If any person peeps at you without your permission and you poke him with a stick and injure his eye, you will not be blamed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Amr:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever killed a Mu'ahid (a person who is granted the pledge of protection by the Muslims) shall not smell the fragrance of Paradise though its fragrance can be smelt at a distance of forty years (of traveling) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not prefer some prophets to others (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When the Jews greet anyone of you they say: 'Sam'Alaika (death be upon you); so you should say; 'Wa 'Alaika (and upon you) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:As if I am looking at the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was speaking about one of the prophets whose people have beaten and wounded him, and he was wiping the blood off his face and saying, "O Lord! Forgive my, people as they do not know (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Regarding Al-Harauriyya: The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "They will go out of Islam as an arrow darts out of the game's body (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till two (huge) groups fight against each other, their claim being one and the same (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Khansa' bint Khidam Al-Ansariya:That her father gave her in marriage when she was a matron and she disliked that marriage. So she came and (complained) to the Prophets and he declared that marriage invalid. (See Hadith No. 69, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I asked the Prophet, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Should the women be asked for their consent to their marriage?" He said, "Yes." I said, "A virgin, if asked, feels shy and keeps quiet." He said, "Her silence means her consent (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A Muslim is a brother of another Muslim. So he should neither oppress him nor hand him over to an oppressor. And whoever fulfilled the needs of his brother, Allah will fulfill his needs (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah does not accept prayer of anyone of you if he does Hadath (passes wind) till he performs the ablution (anew) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:That Abu Bakr wrote for him, Zakat regulations which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had made compulsory, and wrote that one should neither collect various portions (of the property) nor divide the property into various portions in order to avoid paying Zakat (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "One should not prevent others from watering their animals with the surplus of his water in order to prevent them from benefiting by the surplus of grass (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the practice of An-Najsh (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:A man mentioned to the Prophet (ﷺ) that he had always been cheated in bargains. The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whenever you do bargain, say, 'No cheating (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every betrayer there will be a flag by which he will be recognized on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The one who takes back his gift is like a dog swallowing its own vomit, and we (believers) should not act according to this bad example (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Amr bin Ash-Sharid:Abu Rafi` sold a house to Sa`d bin Malik for four-hundred Mithqal of gold, and said, "If I had not heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, 'The neighbor has more right to be taken care of by his neighbor (than anyone else),' then I would not have sold it to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "A good dream (that comes true) of a righteous man is one of forty-six parts of prophetism (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A true good dream is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A good dream that comes true is from Allah, and a bad dream is from Satan, so if anyone of you sees a bad dream, he should seek refuge with Allah from Satan and should spit on the left, for the bad dream will not harm him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Ubada bin As-Samit:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The (good) dreams of a faithful believer is a part of the forty-six parts of prophetism: (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The (good) dream of a faithful believer is a part of the forty-six parts of prophetism (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "A good dream is a part of the forty six parts of prophetism (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Nothing is left of the prophetism except Al-Mubashshirat." They asked, "What are Al-Mubashshirat?" He replied, "The true good dreams (that conveys glad tidings) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Some people were shown the Night of Qadr as being in the last seven days (of the month of Ramadan). The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Seek it in the last seven days (of Ramadan) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I stayed in prison as long as Joseph stayed and then the messenger came, I would respond to his call (to go out of the prison) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Whoever sees me in a dream will see me in his wakefulness, and Satan cannot imitate me in shape." Abu `Abdullah said, "Ibn Seereen said, 'Only if he sees the Prophet (ﷺ) in his (real) shape (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever has seen me in a dream, then no doubt, he has seen me, for Satan cannot imitate my shape (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatada:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever sees me (in a dream) then he indeed has seen the truth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Who ever sees me (in a dream) then he indeed has seen the truth, as Satan cannot appear in my shape (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:About a man who came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said, "I was shown in a dream last night..." Then Ibn `Abbas mentioned the narration (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narated Ubaidullah bin Abdullah:I asked Ibn Abbas about the dream of Allah's Messenger which he mentioned. (see following hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) a black woman with unkempt hair going out of Medina and settling at Mahai'a, i.e., Al-Juhfa. I interpreted that as a symbol of epidemic of Medina being transferred to that place (Al-Juhfa) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "I saw (in a dream) a black woman with unkempt hair going out of Medina and settling in Mahai'a. I interpreted that as (a symbol of) epidemic of Medina being transferred to Mahai'a, namely, Al-Juhfa (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The worst lie is that a person claims to have seen a dream which he has not seen (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever disapproves of something done by his ruler then he should be patient, for whoever disobeys the ruler even a little (little = a span) will die as those who died in the Pre-lslamic Period of Ignorance. (i.e. as rebellious Sinners) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the truthful and trusted by Allah (i.e., the Prophet (ﷺ) ) saying, "The destruction of my followers will be through the hands of young men from Quraish (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Usama bin Zaid:Once the Prophet (ﷺ) stood over one of the high buildings of Medina and then said (to the people), "Do you see what I see?" They said, "No." He said, "I see afflictions falling among your houses as rain drops fall (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah and Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Near the establishment of the Hour there will be days during which Religious ignorance will spread, knowledge will be taken away (vanish) and there will be much Al-Harj, and Al- Harj means killing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah and Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Near the establishment of the Hour there will be days during which Religious ignorance will spread, knowledge will be taken away (vanish) and there will be much Al-Harj, and Al- Harj means killing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Near the establishment of the Hour there will be days during which (religious) knowledge will be taken away (vanish) and general ignorance will spread, and there will be Al-Harj in abundance, and Al-Harj means killing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said...(as above, 185). And Harj, in the Ethiopian language, means killing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Ibn Mas`ud added: I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying; (It will be) from among the most wicked people who will be living at the time when the Hour will be established (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes up arms against us, is not from us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever takes up arms against us, is not from us (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None of you should point out towards his Muslim brother with a weapon, for he does not know, Satan may tempt him to hit him and thus he would fall into a pit of fire (Hell) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sufyan:I said to `Amr, "O Abu Muhammad! Did you hear Jabir bin `Abdullah saying, 'A man carrying arrows passed through the mosque and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him, 'Hold the arrows by their heads! "`Amr replied, "Yes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:A man passed through the mosque and he was carrying arrows, the heads of which were exposed (protruding). The man was ordered (by the Prophet) to hold the iron heads so that it might not scratch (injure) any Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If anyone of you passed through our mosque or through our market while carrying arrows, he should hold the iron heads," or said, "..... he should hold (their heads) firmly with his hand lest he should injure one of the Muslims with it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet, said, "Abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (evil doing) and killing him is Kufr (disbelief) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Do not revert to disbelief after me by striking (cutting) the necks of one another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Beware! Do not renegade as (disbelievers) after me by striking (cutting) the necks of one another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me during Hajjat-al-Wada`, "Let the people keep quiet and listen." Then he said (addressing the people), "Beware! Do not renegade as disbelievers after me by striking (cutting) the necks of one another (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will come a time when the best property of a Muslim will be sheep which he will take to the tops of mountains and the places of rainfall so as to flee with his religion from the afflictions (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The above hadith is narrated on the authority of Anas thorugh another chain and he said (with the wording) "seeking refuge with Allah from the evil of afflictions (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salim's father:The Prophet (ﷺ) stood up beside the pulpit (and pointed with his finger towards the East) and said, "Afflictions are there! Afflictions are there, from where the side of the head of Satan comes out," or said, "..the side of the sun (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) while he was facing the East, saying, "Verily! Afflictions are there, from where the side of the head of Satan comes out (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Wail:`Ammar stood on the pulpit at Kufa and mentioned `Aisha and her coming (to Busra) and said, "She is the wife of your Prophet in this world and in the Hereafter, but you people are being put to test in this issue (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah sends punishment upon a nation then it befalls upon the whole population indiscriminately and then they will be resurrected (and judged) according to their deeds (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abi Waih:Hudhaifa bin Al-Yaman said, 'The hypocrites of today are worse than those of the lifetime of the Prophet, because in those days they used to do evil deeds secretly but today they do such deeds openly (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abi Asha'sha:Hudhaifa said, 'In fact, it was hypocrisy that existed in the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) but today it is Kufr (disbelief) after belief (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till a man passes by a grave of somebody and says, 'Would that I were in his place (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till a man from Qahtan appears, driving the people with his stick (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The Hour will not be established till a fire will come out of the land of Hijaz, and it will throw light on the necks of the camels at Busra (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Haritha bin Wahb:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Give in charity because there will come a time on the people when a person will go out with his alms from place to place but will not find anybody to accept it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar (ra) :The Prophet (ﷺ) said (about Ad-Dajjal) that he is one eyed, his right eye is as if a protruding out grape (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ad-Dajjal will come and encamp at a place close to Medina and then Medina will shake thrice whereupon every Kafir (disbeliever) and hypocrite will go out (of Medina) towards him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The terror caused by Al-Masih Ad-Dajjal will not enter Medina and at that time Medina will have seven gates and there will be two angels at each gate (guarding them) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakra:[as above] (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in his prayer, seeking refuge with Allah from the afflictions of Ad-Dajjal (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said about Ad-Dajjal that he would have water and fire with him: (what would seem to be) fire, would be cold water and (what would seem to be) water, would be fire (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There are angels at the mountain passes of Medina (so that) neither plague nor Ad-Dajjal can enter it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Ad-Dajjal will come to Medina and find the angels guarding it. So Allah willing, neither Ad-Dajjal, nor plague will be able to come near it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A hole has been opened in the dam of Gog and Magog." Wuhaib (the sub-narrator) made the number 90 (with his index finger and thumb) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whoever obeys me, obeys Allah, and whoever disobeys me, disobeys Allah, and whoever obeys the ruler I appoint, obeys me, and whoever disobeys him, disobeys me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "This matter (caliphate) will remain with the Quraish even if only two of them were still existing (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "You should listen to and obey, your ruler even if he was an Ethiopian (black) slave whose head looks like a raisin (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You people will be keen to have the authority of ruling which will be a thing of regret for you on the Day of Resurrection. What an excellent wet nurse it is, yet what a bad weaning one it is (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ma'qil:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Any man whom Allah has given the authority of ruling some people and he does not look after them in an honest manner, will never feel even the smell of Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ma'qil:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If any ruler having the authority to rule Muslim subjects dies while he is deceiving them, Allah will forbid Paradise for him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Qais bin Sa`d was to the Prophet (ﷺ) like a chief police officer to an Amir (chief) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:that the Prophet (ﷺ) sent him and sent Mu`adh after him (as rulers to Yemen) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdur Rahman bin Abi Bakra:Abu Bakra wrote to his son who was in Sijistan: 'Do not judge between two persons when you are angry, for I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A judge should not judge between two persons while he is in an angry mood (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:I witnessed a husband and a wife who were involved in a case of Lian. Then (the judgment of) divorce was passed. I was fifteen years of age, at that time (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:(the brother of Bani Sa`ida) A man from the Ansar came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said, "If a man finds another man sleeping with his wife, should he kill him?" That man and his wife then did Lian in the mosque while I was present (from eng-bukhari.txt)
(continued from above) Narrated Jabir bin Abdullah:I was one of those who stoned him at the Musalla in Al-Madina (See Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Set free the captives and accept invitations (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Salim, the freed salve of Abu Hudhaifa used to lead in prayer the early Muhajirin (emigrants) and the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) in the Quba mosque. Among those (who used to pray behind him) were Abu Bakr, `Umar, Abu Salama, and Amir bin Rabi`a (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin Zaid bin `Abdullah bin `Umar:Some people said to Ibn `Umar, "When we enter upon our ruler(s) we say in their praise what is contrary to what we say when we leave them." Ibn `Umar said, "We used to consider this as hypocrisy (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)s said, "The worst of all mankind is the double-faced one, who comes to some people with one face and to others, with another face (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Hind (bint `Utba) said to the Prophet (ﷺ) "Abu Sufyan is a miserly man and I need to take some money of his wealth." The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Take reasonably what is sufficient for you and your children (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir:The Prophet (ﷺ) came to know that one of his companions had given the promise of freeing his slave after his death, but as he had no other property than that slave, the Prophet (ﷺ) sold that slave for 800 dirhams and sent the price to him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The most hated person in the sight of Allah, is the most quarrelsome person (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:Whenever we gave the Pledge of allegiance to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for to listen to and obey, he used to say to us, for as much as you can (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin `Abdullah:I gave the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) that I would listen and obey, and he told me to add: 'As much as I can, and will give good advice to every Muslim (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Yazid:I said to Salama, "For what did you give the Pledge of allegiance to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the Day of Hudaibiya?" He replied, "For death (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Tariq bin Shihab:Abu Bakr said to the delegate of Buzakha. "Follow the tails of the camels till Allah shows the Caliph (successor) of His Prophet and Al-Muhajirin (emigrants) something because of which you may excuse yourselves (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samura:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "There will be twelve Muslim rulers (who will rule all the Islamic world)." He then said a sentence which I did not hear. My father said, "All of them (those rulers) will be from Quraish (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samura:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "There will be twelve Muslim rulers (who will rule all the Islamic world)." He then said a sentence which I did not hear. My father said, "All of them (those rulers) will be from Quraish (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If I had formerly known what I came to know recently, I would not have driven the Hadi with me and would have finished the state of Ihram along with the people when they finished it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:If I had not heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "You should not long for death," I would have longed (for it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Qais:We went to pay a visit to Khabbab bin Al-Art and he had got himself branded at seven spots over his body. He said, "If Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had not forbidden us to invoke Allah for death, I would have invoked for it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d bin Ubaid:(the Maula of `Abdur-Rahman bin Azhar) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "None of you should long for death, for if he is a good man, he may increase his good deeds, and if he is an evil-doer, he may stop the evil deeds and repent (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Do not long for meeting your enemy, and ask Allah for safety (from all sorts of evil)." (See Hadith No. 266, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Were I not afraid that it would be hard on my followers, I would order them to use the siwak (as obligatory, for cleaning the teeth) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "But for the emigration, I would have been one of the Ansar: and if the people took their way in a valley (or a mountain pass), I would take the Ansar's valley or the mountain pass (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Zaid:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "But for the emigration, I would have been one of the Ansar; and if the people took their way in a valley (or a mountain pass), I would take Ansar's valley or their mountain pass (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Bilal pronounces the Adhan at night so that you may eat and drink till Ibn Um Maktum pronounces the Adhan (for the Fajr prayer) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifa:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to the people of Najran, "I will send to you an honest person who is really trustworthy." The Companion, of the Prophet (ﷺ) each desired to be that person, but the Prophet (ﷺ) sent Abu 'Ubaida (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "For every nation there is an Amin (honest, trustworthy person) and the Amin of this nation is Abu 'Ubaida (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:Two men sued each other before the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:Two men sued each other before the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) embraced me and said, "O Allah! Teach him (the knowledge of) the Book (Qur'an) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abal Minhal:Abu Barza said, "(O people!) Allah makes you self-sufficient or has raised you high with Islam and with Muhammad (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Dinar:`Abdullah Bin `Umar wrote to `Abdul Malik bin Marwan, swearing allegiance to him: 'I swear allegiance to you in that I will listen and obey what is in accordance with the Laws of Allah and the Tradition of His Apostle as much as I can (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) when he said (to two men), "I shall judge between you according to Allah's Book (Laws) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira and Zaid bin Khalid:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) when he said (to two men), "I shall judge between you according to Allah's Book (Laws) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "All my followers will enter Paradise except those who refuse." They said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Who will refuse?" He said, "Whoever obeys me will enter Paradise, and whoever disobeys me is the one who refuses (to enter it) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hammam:Hudhaifa said, "O the Group of Al-Qurra! Follow the straight path, for then you have taken a great lead (and will be the leaders), but if you divert right or left, then you will go astray far away (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sa`d bin Abi Waqqas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The most sinful person among the Muslims is the one who asked about something which had not been prohibited, but was prohibited because of his asking (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:We were with `Umar and he said, "We have been forbidden to undertake a difficult task beyond our capability (i.e. to exceed the religious limits e.g., to clean the inside of the eyes while doing ablution) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:A man said, "O Allah's Prophet! Who is my father?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Your father is so-and-so." And then the Divine Verse:-- 'O you who believe! Ask not questions about things (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "People will not stop asking questions till they say, 'This is Allah, the Creator of everything, then who created Allah? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "A group of my follower swill remain predominant (victorious) till Allah's Order (the Hour) comes upon them while they are still predominant (victorious) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None is killed unjustly, but the first son of Adam will have a part of its burden." Sufyan said, "..a part of its blood because he was the first to establish the tradition of murdering (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to go to the Quba' mosque, sometimes walking, sometimes riding (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to perform the `Asr prayer and then one could reach the `Awali (a place in the outskirts of Medina) while the sun was still quite high. Narrated Yunus: The distance of the `Awali (from Medina) was four or three miles (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:The Sa' (a kind of measure) during the lifetime of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be equal to the one Mudd (another kind of measure) and one third of a Mudd which we use today, but the Sa' of today has become large (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "O Allah! Bestow Your Blessings on their measures, and bestow Your Blessings on their Sa' and Mudd." He meant those of the people of Medina (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Jews brought a man and a woman who had committed illegal sexual intercourse, to the Prophet (ﷺ) and the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered them to be stoned to death, and they were stoned to death near the mosque where the biers used to be placed (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:The Mountain of Uhud came in sight of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who then said, "This is a mountain that loves us and is loved by us. O Allah! Abraham made Mecca a sanctuary and I make the area between its (Medina's) two mountains a sanctuary (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl:The distance between the pulpit and the wall of the mosque on the side of the Qibla was just sufficient for a sheep to pass through (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Between my house and my pulpit there is a garden from one of the gardens of Paradise, and my pulpit is over my Lake-Tank. (Kauthar); (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:I heard `Umar (delivering a sermon) on the pulpit of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid:That he heard `Uthman bin `Affan delivering a sermon on the pulpit of the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:This big copper vessel used to be put for me and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we would take water from it together (on taking a bath) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) brought the Ansar and the Quarish people into alliance in my house at Medina, and he invoked Allah for one month against the tribe of Bani Sulaim in (the last rak`a of each compulsory) prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) brought the Ansar and the Quarish people into alliance in my house at Medina, and he invoked Allah for one month against the tribe of Bani Sulaim in (the last rak`a of each compulsory) prayer (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, "Someone came to me tonight from my Lord while I was in the 'Aqiq (valley), and said to me, "Offer prayer in this blessed valley and say: 'Labbaik' for the (performance of) `Umra and Hajj (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) had a dream in the last portion of the night when he was sleeping at Dhul-Hulaifa. (I n the dream) it was said to him, "You are in a blessed Batha' (i.e., valley) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jundab bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Recite (and study) the Qur'an as long as your hearts are in agreement as to its meanings, but if you have differences as regards its meaning, stop reading it then (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah Al Muzam:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Perform (an optional) prayer before Maghrib prayer." (He repeated it thrice) and the third time he said, "Whoever wants to offer it can do so," lest the people should take it as a Sunna (tradition). (See Hadith No. 277, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas (ra):The Prophet (ﷺ) sent Mu'adh to Yemen (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah will not be merciful to those who are not merciful to mankind (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash`ari:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "None is more patient than Allah against the harmful and annoying words He hears (from the people): They ascribe children to Him, yet He bestows upon them health and provision (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection Allah will hold the whole earth and fold the heaven with His right hand and say, 'I am the King: where are the kings of the earth? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say, "I seek refuge (with YOU) by Your 'Izzat, None has the right to be worshipped but You Who does not die while the Jinns and the human beings die (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Gabriel called me and said, 'Allah has heard the statement of your people and what they replied to you (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) frequently used to swear, "No, by the One Who turns the hearts (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah has ninety-nine Names, one-hundred less one; and he who memorized them all by heart will enter Paradise." To count something means to know it by heart (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifah:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed, he used to say, "Allahumma bismika ahya wa amut." And when he woke up in the mornings he used to say, "Al-hamdu li l-lahi al-ladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana wa ilaihi-nnushur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Dharr:When the Prophet (ﷺ) went to bed at night, he used to say: "Bismika namutu wa nahya." And when he got up in the morning, he used to say, "Al hamdu li l-lahi al-ladhi ahyana ba'da ma amatana, wa ilaihi-nnushur (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) slaughtered two rams as sacrifice and mentioned Allah's Name and said, "Allahu-Akbar" while slaughtering (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Do not swear by your fathers; and whoever wants to swear should swear by Allah (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Allah created the Creation, He wrote in His Book--and He wrote (that) about Himself, and it is placed with Him on the Throne--'Verily My Mercy overcomes My Anger (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah did not send any prophet but that he warned his nation of the one-eyed liar (Ad-Dajjal). He is one-eyed while your Lord is not one-eyed, The word 'Kafir' (unbeliever) is written between his two eyes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Allah will grasp the whole Earth by His Hand, and all the Heavens in His right, and then He will say, 'I am the King." Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said," Allah will grasp the Earth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "On the Day of Resurrection, Allah will grasp the whole Earth by His Hand, and all the Heavens in His right, and then He will say, 'I am the King." Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said," Allah will grasp the Earth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa`d:The Prophet (ﷺ) said to a man, "Have you got anything of the Qur'an?" The man said, "Yes, such-andsuch Sura, and such-and-such Sura," naming the Suras (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "When Allah had finished His creation, He wrote over his Throne: 'My Mercy preceded My Anger (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say at the time of difficulty, 'La ilaha il-lallah Al-`Alimul-Halim. La-ilaha illallah Rabul- Arsh-al-Azim, La ilaha-il-lallah Rabus-Samawati Rab-ul-Ard; wa Rab-ul-Arsh Al- Karim.' (See Hadith No. 356 and 357, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Dharr:I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding the Verse:--'And the sun runs on its fixed course for a term decreed for it.' (36.28) He said, "Its fixed course is underneath Allah's Throne (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin `Abdullah:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "You will definitely see your Lord with your own eyes (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Jarir:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out to us on the night of the full moon and said, "You will see your Lord on the Day of Resurrection as you see this (full moon) and you will have no difficulty in seeing Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent for the Ansar and gathered them in a tent and said to them, "Be patient till you meet Allah and His Apostle, and I will be on the lake-Tank (Al-Kauthar) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Adi bin Hatim:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "There will be none among you but his Lord will speak to him, and there will be no interpreter between them nor a screen to screen Him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Some people will be scorched by Hell (Fire) as a punishment for sins they have committed, and then Allah will admit them into Paradise by the grant of His Mercy. These people will be called, 'Al-Jahannamiyyin' (the people of Hell) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "When Allah created the creations, He wrote with Him on His Throne: 'My Mercy has preceded My Anger (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira bin Shu`ba:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Some people from my followers will continue to be victorious over others till Allah's Order (The Hour) is established." (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Muawiya:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "A group of my followers will keep on following Allah's Laws strictly and they will not be harmed by those who will disbelieve them or stand against them till Allah's Order (The Hour) will come while they will be in that state (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Whenever anyone of you invoke Allah for something, he should be firm in his asking, and he should not say: 'If You wish, give me...' for none can compel Allah to do something against His Will (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Ad-Dajjal will come to Medina and find the angels guarding it. If Allah will, neither Ad-Dajjal nor plague will be able to come near it (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "For every Prophet there is one invocation which is definitely fulfilled by Allah, and I wish, if Allah will, to keep my that (special) invocation as to be the intercession for my followers on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:Whenever a beggar or a person in need of something came to the Prophet (ﷺ) , he used to say (to his companions), "Intercede (for him) and you will be rewarded for that, and Allah will fulfill what He will through His Apostle's tongue (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "If Allah wills, tomorrow we will encamp in Khaif Bani Kinana, the place where the pagans took the oath of Kufr (disbelief) against the Prophet. He meant Al-Muhassab. (See Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah never listens to anything as He listens to the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Qur'an in a pleasant sweet sounding voice." A companion of Abu Huraira said, "He means, reciting the Qur'an aloud (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa`id Al-Khudri:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah will say (on the Day of Resurrection), 'O Adam!' Adam will reply, 'Labbaik wa Sa`daik! ' Then a loud Voice will be heard (Saying) 'Allah Commands you to take out the mission of the Hell Fire from your offspring (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:I never felt so jealous of any woman as I felt of Khadija, for Allah ordered him (the Prophet (ﷺ) ) to give Khadija the glad tidings of a palace in Paradise (for her) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah bin Abi `Aufa:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said on the Day of (the battle of) the Clans, "O Allah! The Revealer of the Holy Book, The Quick Taker of Accounts! Defeat the clans and shake them (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said: "The son of Adam hurts Me by abusing Time, for I am Time; in My Hands are all things and I cause the revolution of night and day.' " (See Hadith No. 351, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but will be the foremost on the Day of Resurrection." The narrators of this Hadith said: Allah said (to man), 'Spend (in charity), for then I will compensate you (generously) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "We (Muslims) are the last (to come) but will be the foremost on the Day of Resurrection." The narrators of this Hadith said: Allah said (to man), 'Spend (in charity), for then I will compensate you (generously) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, "I have prepared for My righteous slaves (such excellent things) as no eye has ever seen, nor an ear has ever heard nor a human heart can ever think of (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid:It rained (because of the Prophet's invocation for rain) and the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'Some of My slaves have become disbelievers in Me, and some others, believers in Me (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'If My slaves loves the meeting with Me, I too love the meeting with him; and if he dislikes the meeting with Me, I too dislike the meeting with him.' " (See Hadith No. 514, Vol) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "Allah said, 'I am to my slave as he thinks of Me, (i.e. I am able to do for him what he thinks I can do for him). (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Ikrima:Ibn `Abbas said, "How can you ask the people of the Scriptures about their Books while you have Allah's Book (the Qur'an) which is the most recent of the Books revealed by Allah, and you read it in its pure undistorted form? (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Verse:-- '(O Muhammad!) Neither say your prayer aloud nor say it in a low tone.' (17.110) was revealed in connection with the invocations (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Salama:Abu Huraira said, "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, 'Whoever does not recite Qur'an in a nice voice is not from us,' and others said extra," (that means) to recite it aloud (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughira:Our Prophet has informed us our Lord's Message that whoever of us is martyred, will go to Paradise (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas`ud:A man asked the Prophet (ﷺ) "What deeds are the best?" The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "(1) To perform the (daily compulsory) prayers at their (early) stated fixed times, (2) to be good and dutiful to one's own parents, (3) and to participate in Jihad in Allah's Cause (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "My Lord says, 'If My slave comes nearer to me for a span, I go nearer to him for a cubit; and if he comes nearer to Me for a cubit, I go nearer to him for the span of outstretched arms; and if he comes to Me walking, I go to him running (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Perhaps the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioned the following (as Allah's Saying): "If My slave comes nearer to Me for a span, I go nearer to him for a cubit; and if he comes nearer to Me for a cubit; I go nearer to him for the span of outstretched arms. (See Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:The Prophet (ﷺ) said that his Lord said: "It does not befit a slave that he should say that he is better than Jonah (Yunus) bin Matta (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Allah does not listen to anything as He listens to the recitation of the Qur'an by a Prophet who recites it in attractive audible sweet sounding voice (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara':I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Surat at-Tin waz Zaitun (By the Fig and the Olive) in the `Isha' prayer and I have never heard anybody with a better voice or recitation than his (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Aisha:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite the Qur'an with his head in my lap while I used to be in my periods (having menses) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Imran:I said, "O Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)! Why should a doer (people) try to do good deeds?' The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Everybody will find easy to do such deeds as will lead him to his destined place for which he has been created (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying, "Before Allah created the creations, He wrote a Book (wherein He has written): My Mercy has preceded my Anger." and that (Book) is written with Him over the Throne (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah (ra):I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying: "Before Allah created the creations, He wrote a Book (wherein He has written): "My Mercy has preceded my Anger.' And that is written with Him over the Throne." (see Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Aisha:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said, "The painter of these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said to them, Make alive what you have created (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "The painters of these pictures will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said to them, 'Make alive what you have created (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying, "Allah said, 'Who are most unjust than those who try to create something like My creation? I challenge them to create even a smallest ant, a wheat grain or a barley grain (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "(There are) two words which are dear to the Beneficent (Allah) and very light (easy) for the tongue (to say), but very heavy in weight in the balance. They are: ''Subhan Allah wa-bi hamdihi'' and ''Subhan Allah Al-`Azim." (see Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas:as above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Is-haq:As above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Al-Ashath:He (the Prophet (p.b.u.h) ) used to get up for the prayer on hearing the crowing of a cock (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:The same as No. 290. from the Prophet (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama bin 'Alqama:I asked Muhammad (bin Seereen) whether Tashah-hud should be recited after the two prostrations of Sahu. He replied, "It is not (mentioned) in Abu Huraira's narration (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakr bin `Aiyash:Sufyan at-Tammar told me that he had seen the grave of the Prophet (ﷺ) elevated and convex (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Mussaddad from `Abdul Wahid:the same as above but said, "... in every joint undivided thing..." Narrated Hisham from Ma`mar the same as above but said, " ... in every property (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi Najih:as above, mentioning only specific measure (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi Najih:as above, saying, "He should pay the price in advance for a specified measure and for a specified period (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Salama:the above narration (Hadith 616) from Ubai bin Ka`b: adding, "I met the sub-narrator at Mecca later on, but he did not remember whether Ka`b had announced what he had found one year or three years (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Shuba:A similar Hadith (i e. No. 762) with this addition: And if he (i.e. the Prophet) disliked something, the sign of aversion would appear on his face (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Adi:as above (i.e. Hadith No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated 'Abdul Warith: The same but said, "O Allah, teach him (Ibn Abbas) the Book (i.e. the understanding of the knowledge of Qur'an)." Narrated Khalid: As above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:(as above Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu `Abdur-Rahman:`Ali said, "We were sitting with the Prophet," (He then mentioned the Hadith above) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying... (as above, no) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Hisham:(The same Hadith as 6.556, adding): which I missed (modifying the Verses) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas'ud:The Prophet (ﷺ) said, "If somebody recites the last two Verses of Surat al-Baqara at night, it will be sufficient for him (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:The Prophet (ﷺ) distributed dates among us, and my share was five dates, four of which were good, and one was a ,Hashafa, and I found the Hashafa the hardest for my teeth (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Anas: As above (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Abdullah:(As above) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated Ibn `Abbas:I heard the Prophet (saying the same as above Hadith) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Narrated `Urwa:I heard Al-Maghira bin Shu`ba narrating that `Umar had consulted them about the case of abortion (similarly as narrated in No) (from eng-bukhari.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: "Whatever I have commanded you do it, and whatever I have forbidden you, refrain from it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: "Whoever obeys me, obeys Allah; and whoever disobeys me, disobeys Allah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Ja'far said:"Whenever Ibn 'Umar heard a Hadith from the Messanger of Allah (ﷺ), he would not do more than it said, and he would not do less (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu'awiyah bin Qurrah narrated that his father said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A group of my Ummah will continue to prevail and they will never be harmed by those who forsake them, until the Hour begins (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A group of my Ummah will continue to adhere steadfastly to the command of Allah and those who oppose them will not be able to harm them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu 'Inabah Al-Khawlani said that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Allah will continue to plant new people in this religion and use them in His obedience (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Thawban that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A group among my Ummah will continue to follow the truth and prevail, and those who oppose them will not be able to harm them, until the command of Allah comes to pass (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Aishah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever innovates something in this matter of ours (i.e. Islam) that is not part of it, will have it rejected (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"When I tell you of a Hadith from the Messenger of Alllah (ﷺ), then think of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as being the best, the utmost rightly guided and the one with the utmost Taqwa (piety, righteousness) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ali bin Abu Talib said :"When I narrate a Hadith from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), to you, then think of him as being the best, the most rightly guided and the one with the utmost Taqwa (piety, righteousness) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah that :Abu Hurairah said to a man "O son of my brother, when I narrate a Hadith of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), to you, then do not try to make any examples for it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Muhammad bin Sirin said :"Whenever Anas bin Malik finished narrating a Hadith from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), he would say, 'Or as the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Laila said:We said to Zaid bin Arqam: 'Tell us a Hadith from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).' He said: 'We have grown old and have forgotten, and (narrating) Ahadith from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) is difficult (not a simple matter) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Abu Safar said:"I heard Ash-Sha'bi saying: 'I sat with Ibn 'Umar for a year and I did not hear him narrate anything from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'ib bin Yazid said:"I accompanied Sa'd bin Malik from Al-Madinah to Makkah and I did not hear him narrate a single Hadith from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever tells lies about me deliberately, let him take his place in Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Do not tell lies about me, for telling lies about me leads to Hell (Fire) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever tells lies about me', I (the narrator) think that he also said 'deliberately', let him take his place in Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever tells lies about me deliberately, let him take his place in Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever attributes to me something that I have not said, let him take his place in Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever tells lies about me deliberately, let him take his place in Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: '"Whoever narrates a Hadith from me thinking it to be false, then he is one of the two liars." (Either the one who invents a lie or the one who repeats it; both are liars) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundub that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: '"Whoever narrated a Hadith from me thinking it to be false, then he is one of the two liars (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from `Ali that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever narrates a Hadith from me thinking it to be false, then he is one of the two liars." Another chain similar to the narration of Samurah bin Jundub (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mughirah bin Shu'bah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: '"Whoever narrates a Hadith from me thinking it to be false, then he is one of the two liars (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Irbad bin Sariyah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in Fajr (morning) prayer, then he turned to us and delivered an eloquent speech". And he mentioned something similar (as no) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'No people go astray after having followed right guidance, but those who indulge in disputes.' Then he recited the Verse: "Nay! But they are a quarrelsome people (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Allah refuses to accept the good deeds of one who follows innovation until he gives up that innovation (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever is given a Fatwa (verdict) that has no basis, then his sin will be upon the one who issued that Fatwa (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Knowledge is based on three things, and anything beyond that is superfluous: a clear Verse, an established Sunnah, or the rulings by which the inheritance is divided fairly (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu'adh bin Jabal said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent me to Yemen, he said: 'Do not pass any judgment or make any decision except on the basis of what you know. If you are uncertain about a matter, wait until you understand it fully, or write to me concerning it.'" (Maudu) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said heard a man urging his brother to be modest. He said: 'Indeed modesty is a branch of faith (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'No one will enter Paradise who has even a mustard-seed's weight of arrogance in his heart, and no one will enter Hell who has even a mustard-seed's weight of faith in his heart (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jundub bin 'Abdullah said:"We were with the Prophet (ﷺ), and we were strong youths, so we learned faith before we learned Qur'an. Then we learned Qur'an and our faith increased thereby (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'There are two types of people among this Ummah who have no share of Islam: The Murji'ah and the Qadariyyah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali bin Abu Talib said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Faith is knowledge in the heart, words on the tongue and action with the physical faculties. (limbs of the body).'" (Maudu) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'None of you truly believes until he loves for his brother" or he said "for his neighbor, what he loves for himself (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'None of you truly believes until I am more beloved to him than his child, his father and all the people (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Verbally abusing a Muslim is immorality and fighting him is Kufr (disbelief) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas and Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'There are two types among my Ummah who have no share of Islam: the people of Irja' and the people of Qadar (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah and Ibn 'Abbas said:"Faith increases and decreases (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Darda' said:"Faith increases and decreases (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'No slave truly believes until he believes in four things: in Allah alone with no partner; that I am the Messenger of Allah; in the resurrection after death; and in the Divine Decree (Qadar) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The likeness of the heart is that of a feather blown about by the wind in the desert (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Thawban said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Nothing extends one's life span but righteousness, nothing averts the Divine Decree but supplication, and nothing deprives a man of provision but the sin that he commits (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The wealth of none of you has benefited me as much as the wealth of Abu Bakr.'" Abu Bakr wept and said: 'O Messenger of Allah, I and my wealth are only for you, O Messenger of Allah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Abu Bakr and 'Umar are the leaders of the mature people of Paradise, and the first and the last, except for the Prophets and Messengers, but do not tell them about that, O 'Ali, as long as they are still alive (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The people of the highest degrees of Paradise will be seen by those beneath them as a rising star is seen on the horizon. Abu Bakr and 'Umar will be among them, and how blessed they are (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah bin Yaman said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'I do not know how long I will stay among you, so follow the example of these two after I am gone,' and he pointed to Abu Bakr and `Umar (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah came out standing between Abu Bakr and 'Umar and said: 'Thus will I be resurrected (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Awn bin Abi Juhaifah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Abu Bakr and 'Umar are the leaders of the mature people of Paradise, the first and the last, except for the Prophets and the Messengers (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"It was said: 'O Messenger of Allah, which of the people is most beloved to you?' He said: "Aishah.' It was asked, 'And among men?' He said: 'Her father (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Shaqiq said:"I said to 'Aishah: 'Which of the (Prophet's) Companions was most beloved to him?' She said: 'Abu Bakr.' I said: 'Then which of them?' She said: ''Umar.' I said: 'Then which of them?' She said: 'Abu 'Ubaidah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"When 'Umar became Muslim, Jibril came down and said: 'O Muhammed! The people of heaven are rejoicing because of 'Umar's Islam (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrted that Ubayy bin Ka'b said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The first person with whom Allah will shake hands will be 'Umar, (and he is) the first person to be greeted with the Salam, and the first person who will be taken by the hand and admitted into Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'O Allah! Strengthen Islam with 'Umar bin Khattab in particular (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Salimah said:"I heard 'Ali say: 'The best of people after the Messenger of Allah is Abu Bakr, and the best of people after Abu Bakr is 'Umar (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Allah has placed the truth on the tongue of 'Umar, and he speaks with that (truth) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Every Prophet will have a friend in Paradise, and my friend there will be 'Uthman bin 'Affan (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet met 'Uthman at the door of the mosque and said: "O 'Uthman! Jibril has told me that Allah married you to Umm Kulthum for a dowry like that of Ruqayyah, provided that you treat her as you treated Ruqayyah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Unlettered Prophet informed me (saying) that none but a believer would love me and none but a hypocrite would hate me (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Sa'd bin Abu Waqqas narrated from his father that:The Prophet said to 'Ali: "Would it not please you to be to me as Harun was to Musa? (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Hasan and Husain will be the leaders of the youth of Paradise, and their father is better than them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hubshi bin Junadah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: ''Ali is part of me and I am part of him, and no one will represent me except 'Ali (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abbad bin 'Abdullah said:"'Ali said: 'I am the slave of Allah and the brother of His Messenger. I am the greatest teller of the truth (Siddiq Akbar), and no one will say this after me except a liar. I prayed seven years before the people (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Zubair said:"The Messenger of Allah named his parents together for me on the Day of Uhud (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham bin 'Urwah that his father said:''Aishah said to me: 'O 'Urwah, your two fathers were of those who answered (the Call of) Allah and the Messenger (Muhammed) after being wounded," (they were) Abu Bakr and Zubair (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:Talhah passed by the Prophet and he said: "A martyr walking upon the face of the earth (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mu'awiyah bin Abu Sufyan said:"The Prophet looked at Talhah and said: 'This is one of those who fulfilled their covenant (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Musa bin Talhah said:We were with Mu'awiyah and he said: "I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Talhah is one of those who fulfilled their covenant (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qais said:"I saw the paralyzed hand of Talhah, with which he had defended the Messenger of Allah on the Day of Uhud (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"I never saw the Messenger of Allah mention his parents together for anyone except Sa'd bin Malik. He said to him on the Day of Uhud: 'Shoot, Sa'd! May my father and mother be sacrificed for you (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Musayyab said:"I heard Sa'd bin Abu Waqqas say: 'The Messenger of Allah mentioned his parents together for me on the Day of Uhud. He said: 'Shoot, Sa'd! May my father and mother be sacrificed for you (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qais said:"I heard Sa'd bin Abu Waqqas say: 'I am the first of the Arabs to shoot an arrow in the cause of Allah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hashim bin Hashim said:"I heard Sa'eed bin Musayyab say: 'Sa'd bin Abu Waqqas said: 'No one else became Muslim on the same day as I did; for seven days I was one-third of Islam (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah that:The Messenger of Allah said to the people of Najran: "I will send you a trustworthy man with you, who is indeed trustworthy." The people craned their necks to see, and he sent Abu 'Ubaidah bin Jarrah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:The Messenger of Allah said to Abu 'Ubaidah bin Jarrah: "This is the trustworthy man of this Ummah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If I were to appoint anyone as my successor without consulting anyone, I would have appointed Ibn Umm 'Abd (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud that:Abu Bakr and 'Umar gave him the glad tidings that the Messenger of Allah had said: "Whoever would like to recite the Qur'an as fresh as when it was revealed, let him recite it like Ibn Umm 'Abd (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah said to me: 'The sign that you have been permitted to come in is that you raise the curtain and that you hear me speaking quietly, until I forbid you.' (i.e. unless I forbid you) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet said to Hasan: "O Allah, I love him, so love him and love those who love him." He said: "And he hugged him to his chest (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever loves Hasan and Husain, loves me; and whoever hates them, hates me (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Zaid bin Arqam said:"The Messenger of Allah said to 'Ali, Fatimah, Hasan and Husain: 'I am peace for those with whom you make peace, and I am war for those with whom you make war (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali bin Abu Talib said:"I was sitting with the Prophet, and 'Ammar bin Yasir asked permission to enter. The Prophet said: 'Let him in, welcome to the good and the purified (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hani bin Hani said that:'Ammar entered upon 'Ali and he said: "Welcome to the good and the purified. I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Ammar's heart overflows with faith (Literally, up to the top of his bones) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:'The Messenger of Allah said: ''Ammar- no two things were shown to him but he chose the better of the two (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that:A poet praised Bilal bin 'Abdullah and said: "Bilal bin 'Abdullah is better than any other Bilal." Ibn 'Umar said: 'You are lying. The Bilal of the Messenger of Allah is better than any other Bilal (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Laila Al-Kindi said:"Khabbab came to `Umar and said: 'Come close, for no one deserves this meeting more than you, except `Ammar.' Then Khabbab started to show him the marks on his back where the idolaters had tortured him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Another chain with similar wording (as no. 154) but he said that:Zaid was: "The most knowledgeable of them concerning the rules of inheritance (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'There is no one on earth, or under the sky, who speaks more truthfully than Abu Dharr (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Throne of The Most Merciful trembled upon the death of Sa'd bin Mu'adh (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Rafi' bin Khadij said:"Jibril or an angel came to the Prophet and said: 'How do you regard those among you who were present at Badr?' He said: 'They are the best among us.' He said: 'We think the same (of the angels who were present at Badr), they are the best of the angels (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Nusair bin Dhu'luq said:"Ibn 'Umar used to say: 'Do not revile the Companions of Muhammed, for the stay of anyone of them for a brief period (with the Prophet) is better than all the good deeds that anyone of you does in his lifetime (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Kathir bin 'Abdullah bin 'Amr bin 'Awf narrated from his father:That his grandfather said: "The Messenger of Allah said: 'May Allah have mercy on the Ansar, and the children of the Ansar, and the grandchildren of the Ansar (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah embraced me and said: 'O Allah, teach him wisdom and the (correct) interpretation of the Book (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There are those who recite the Qur'an but it does not go any deeper than their collarbones. They will pass through Islam like an arrow passing through its target (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Awfa said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Khawarij are the dogs of Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Do you crowd one another in order to see the moon on the night when it is full?' They said: 'No.' He said: 'And you will not crowd one another in order to see your Lord on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Waki' bin Hudus narrated that his paternal uncle Abu Razin said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, where was our Lord before He created His creation?' He said: He was above the clouds, below which was air, and above which was air and water. Then He created His Throne above the water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Your Lord wrote for Himself with His Own Hand before He created the creation: "My mercy precedes My wrath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Sa'eed bin Musayyab narrated that Abu Hurairah used to say:"The Messenger of Allah said: Allah will seize the earth on the Day of Ressurection, and He will roll up the heavens in his Right Hand, then He will say, "I am the Sovereign. Where are the kings of the earth? (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah smiles at three things: a row in the prayer, a man who prays in the depths of the night, and a man who fights' I think he said, 'behind the battalion (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:The Messenger of Allah used to appear before the people during the Hajj season and say: 'Is there any man who can take me to his people, for the Quraish have prevented me from conveying the speech (i.e. the Message) of my Lord (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Darda' that:The Prophet said concerning the Verse: "Every day He is (engaged) in some affair." "His affairs include forgiving sins, relieving distress, raising some people and bringing others low (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no caller who invites people to a thing but on the Day of Resurrection he will be made to stand next to that to which he called others, even if he only called one another person (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthman bin 'Affan said that:The Messenger of Allah said: (According to one of the narrators) Shu'bah (he) said: 'The best of you' (and according to) Sufyan (he) said: "The most excellent of you is the one who learns the Qur'an and teaches it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthmaan bin 'Affan said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The most excellent of you is the one who learns the Qur'an and teaches it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mus'ab bin Sa'd narrated that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The best of you is the one who learns the Qur'an and teaches it.' " 'Then he (Mus'ab) took me (the narrator) by the hand and made me sit here, and I started to teach Qur'an (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah has His own people among mankind.' They said: 'O Messenger of Allah, who are they?' He said: 'The people of the Qur'an, the people of Allah and those who are closest to Him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali bin Abu Talib said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever reads the Qur'an and memorizes it, Allah will admit him to Paradise and allow him to intercede for ten of his family members who all deserved to enter Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When Allah wills good for a person, He causes him to understand the religion (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'One Faqih (knowledgeable man) is more formidable against the Shaitan than one thousand devoted worshippers (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Seeking knowledge is a duty upon every Muslim, and he who imparts knowledge to those who do not deserve it, is like one who puts a necklace of jewels, pearls and gold around the neck of swines (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin 'Abdullah narrated from his father that:The Prophet said: "May Allah cause his face to shine, the man who hears a Hadith from us and conveys it, for perhaps the one to whom it is conveyed may remember it better than the one who (first) hears it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Bahz bin Hakim narrated from his father that his grandfather Mu'awiyah Al-Qushairi said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Let the one who is present convey to the one who is absent (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Let those of you who are present convey it to those of you who are absent (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Everyone in the universe, in the heavens and on earth, prays for forgiveness for the scholar, even the fish in the sea (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Sahl bin Mu'adh bin Anas narrated from his father that:The Prophet said: "Whoever teaches some knowledge will have the reward of the one who acts upon it, without that detracting from his reward in the slightest (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet said: "The best of charity is when a Muslim man gains knowledge, then he teaches it to his Muslim brother (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Shu'aib bin 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah was never seen eating while reclining or making two men walk behind him." (Sahih) Other chains with the same meanings (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrarted that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"When the Prophet walked, his Companions would walk in front of him, and he would leave his back for the angels (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever seeks knowledge in order to argue with the foolish, or to show off before the scholars, or to attract people's attention, will be in Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Prophet said: "Whoever seeks knowledge for a reason other than the sake of Allah, or intends it for a purpose other than for the sake of Allah, let him take his place in hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Do not acquire knowledge in order to show off before the scholars, or to argue with the foolish, or to attract people's attention, for whoever does that will be in Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever seeks knowledge in order to argue with the foolish, or to show off before the scholars, or to attract people's attention, Allah will admit him to Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet said: "There is no man who memorizes knowledge then conceals it, but he will be brought forth on the Day of Resurrection bridled with reins of fire." (Hasan) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When the last people of this Ummah curse the first, (at that time) whoever conceals a Hadith will be concealing what Allah has revealed.'" (Maudu) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Yusuf bin Ibrahim said:'I heard Anas bin Malik say: "I heard the Messenger of Allah say: "Whoever is asked about knowledge and conceals it, it will be bridled on the Day of Resurrection with reins of fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever conceals knowledge which Allah has made beneficial for mankind's affairs of religion, Allah will bridle him with reins of fire on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever is asked about knowledge that he has and he conceals it, will be bridled on the Day of Resurrection with reins of fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Safinah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to perform ablution with a Mudd (of water) and bath with a Sa (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to perform ablution with a Mudd (of water) and bath with a Sa (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:The Messenger of Allah used to perform ablution with a Mudd (of water) and bath with a Sa (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Usamah bin 'Umair Al-Hudhali said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah does not accept any prayer without purification and He does not accept any charity from Ghulul.'" (Sahih) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah does not accept any prayer without purification, and He does not accept any charity from ghulul (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Allah does not accept any prayer without purification, and He does not accept any charity from Ghulul (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah does not accept any Salat (prayer) without purification, and He does not accept any charity from Ghulul (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammed bin Al-Hanafiyyah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The key to prayer is purification, its opening is to say 'Allahu Akbar' and its closing is to say As-salamu 'alaikum (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The key to prayer is purification, its opening is to say Allahu Akbar and its closing is to say As-salamu 'alaikum (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Thawban said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Adhere to righteousness even though you will not be able to do all acts of virtue. Know that the best of your deeds is Salat (prayer) and that no one maintains his ablution except a believer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Adhere to righteousness even though you will not be able to do all acts of virtue. Know that among the best of your deeds is prayer and that no one maintains his ablution except a believer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah said, in a marfu' Hadith:"Adhere to righteousness and it is a blessing if you are able to do so. Know that the best of your deeds is prayer and that no one maintains his ablution except a believer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:"Whenever the Messenger of Allah got up for prayer at night to pray Tahajjud (night optional prayer), he would clean his mouth with the tooth stick (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Were it not that it would be too difficult for my Ummah (nation), I would have commanded them to use the tooth stick at every time of prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah used to pray in the night (Qiyamul-Lail) two Rak'ah by two, then when he finished he would use the tooth stick (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Miqdam bin Shuraih bin Hani' that his father said:"I said to 'Aishah: 'Tell me, what was the first thing that the Messenger of Allah did when he entered upon you?' She said: 'The first thing he would do would be to use the tooth stick (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali bin Abu Talib said:"Your mouths are the paths of the Qur'an, so perfume them with the tooth stick (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The deeds connected to the Fitrah are five (or five things are connected to the Fitrah): circumcision, shaving the pubic hairs, clipping the nails, plucking the armpit hairs and trimming the mustache (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"We were given a time limit with regard to trimming the mustache, shaving the pubic hairs, plucking the armpit hairs and clipping the nails. We were not to leave that for more than forty days (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The screen between the Jinn and the nakedness of the sons of Adam is that when a person enters the Kanif, he should say: Bismillah (in the name of Allah) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"Whenever the Messenger of Allah entered the toilet, he would say: 'A'udhu Billahi minal-khubthi wa'l-khaba'ith (I seek refuge with Allah from male and female devils) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Yusuf bin Abi Burdah narrated:"I heard my father say: 'I entered upon 'Aishah, and I heard her say: "When the Messenger of Allah exited the toilet, he would say: Ghufranaka (I seek Your forgiveness).'" (Sahih) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"Whenever the Prophet exited the toilet, he would say: 'Al-hamdu lillahilladhi adhhaba 'annial-adha wa 'afani (Praise is to Allah Who has relieved me of impurity and given me good health) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Urwah narrated from 'Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah used to remember Allah in all circumstances (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:When the Prophet entered the toilet, he would take off his ring (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah that:The Messenger of Allah came to the garbage dump of some people and he urinated on it standing up (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"If anyone tells you that the Messenger of Allah urinated while standing, do not believe him, for I (always) saw him urinating while sitting down (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah saw me urinating while standing, and he said: 'O 'Umar, do not urinate standing up.' So I never urinated whilst standing after that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin Abu Qatadah said:"My father told me that he heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'When anyone of you urinates, let him not touch his penis with his right hand nor clean himself with his right hand.'" Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uqbah bin Suhban said:"I heard 'Uthman bin 'Affan say: 'I never sang a song or told a lie or touched my penis with my right hand after I swore on oath of allegiance to the Messenger of Allah to that effect (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When anyone of you cleans himself, he should not clean himself with his right hand. Let him clean himself with his left hand (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:"The Messenger of Allah went to the toilet and said: 'Bring me three stones.' So I brought him two stones and a piece of dung. He took the two stones and threw the dung away, saying: 'It is impure (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Khuzaimah bin Thabit said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'For cleaning yourself you need three stones, no one of them being dung (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin Harith bin Jaz' Az-Zubaidi said:"I am the first one who heard the Prophet say: 'No one among you should urinate facing towards the Qiblah,' and I am the first one who told the people of that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ayyub Ansari said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade the person who went to the Gha'it to face the Qiblah. He said: 'face towards the east or the west (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ma'qil bin Abu Ma'qil Al-Asadi, who was a Companion of the Prophet, said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade us from facing either of the two Qiblah when defecating or urinating (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah:"Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated to me, that he bears witness that the Messenger of Allah forbade facing the Qiblah when defecating or urinating (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir heard Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri say:"The Messenger of Allah forbade me from drinking while standing and from urinating while facing the Qiblah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade facing the Qiblah when urinating. But I saw him, one year before he died, facing the Qiblah (while urinating) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Eisa bin Yazdad Al-Yamani that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When anyone of you urinates, let him squeeze his penis three times (to remove the remaining urine drops)." (Da'if) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet went out to urinate, and 'Umar followed him with water. He said: 'What is this, O 'Umar?' He said: 'Water.' He said: 'I have not been commanded to perform ablution every time I urinate. If I did that it would have become a Sunnah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Salim narrated from his father that:The Prophet forbade praying in the middle of the road, or defecating there, or urinating (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mugirah bin Shu'bah said:"Whenever the Prophet went to relieve himself, he would go far away (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"I was with the Prophet on a journey. He went away to relieve himself, then he came and called for water and performed ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ya'la bin Murrah that:When the Prophet went to relieve himself, he would go far away (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Qurad said:"I went for Hajj with the Prophet and he went far away to relieve himself (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"We went out on a journey with the Messenger of Allah, and the Messenger of Allah would not relieve himself until he had disappeared and could not be seen by anyone (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bilal bin Al-Harith Al-Muzani that:When the Messenger of Allah wanted to relieve himself, he would go far away (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Ja'far said:"The thing that the Prophet most liked to conceal himself behind when relieving himself was a hillock or a stand of date-palm trees (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah turned towards a mountain pass and urinated, until I took pity on him because of the way he parted his legs when he urinated (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa`eed al-Khudri that:The Messenger of Allah said: "No two people should converse while relieving themselves, each of them looking at the private parts of the other, for Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, hates that." (Da'if) Other chains with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:The Messenger of Allah forbade urinating into standing water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'No one among you should urinate into standing water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'No one among you should urinate into standing water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Most of the torment of the grave is because of urine (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"A man passed by the Prophet while he was urinating, and greeted him with the Salam, but he did not return the greeting. While he finished, he struck the ground with his palms and did dry ablution (Tayammum), then he returned the greeting (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin `Abdullah that:"A man passed by the Prophet while he was urinating, and greeted him by the Salam. The Messenger of Allah said to him: "If you see me in this situation, do not greet me with the Salam, for if you do that I will not respond to you (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"A man passed by the Prophet while he was urinating and greeted him with the Salam, and he did not return the greeting (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I never saw the Messenger of Allah come out of the toilet without first (cleansing himself) with water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet used to wash his private parts three times. Ibn 'Umar said: "We did that and we found it to be healing and a means of purification (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet relieved himself, then he cleaned himself (with water) from a pot made of brass, then he wiped his hand on the ground. Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibrahim bin Jarir narrated from his father that :The Prophet of Allah entered a thicket and relieved himself, then Jarir brought him a small water skin from which he cleansed himself, then he wiped his hand in the dirt (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Prophet commanded (us) to tie up our water skins and cover our vessels (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to cover three vessels for the Messenger of Allah at night: A vessel (of water) for his ablution, a vessel for his tooth stick and a vessel for his drink (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah never entrusted his purification to anyone nor his charity that he had given to anyone; he would be the one to take care of these matters himself (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "If a dog licks the vessel of anyome of you, let him wash it seven times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal that:The Messenger of Allah said: 'If a dog licks a vessel, wash it seven times and rub it with dust the eight times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If a dog licks the vessel of anyone of you, let him wash it seven times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah and I used to perform ablution from a single vessel, when the cat had drunk from it beforehand (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Cats do not invalidate the prayer, because they are one of the things that are useful in the house (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"One of the wives of the Prophet took a bath from a large vessel, then the Prophet came and had a bath or ablution, and she said: 'O Messenger of Allah, I was sexually impure.' He said: 'Water does not become impure (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:One of the wives of the Prophet took a bath to cleanse herself from sexual impurity, then the Prophet performed ablution and had a bath with the water left over from her ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas, from Maimunah the wife of the Prophet, that :the Prophet performed ablution with the water left over after she had taken a bath to cleanse herself from sexual impurity (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hakam bin 'Amr that:The Messenger of Allah forbade men to perform ablution with the left over water by a woman (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Prophet and his wife would take a bath from one vessel, but neither of them would have a bath with the leftover water of the other." (Daif) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah and I would take a bath from a single vessel (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that his maternal aunt Maimunah said:"The Messager of Allah and I used to take bath from a single vessel (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Hani that :The Prophet and Maimunah took a bath from a single vessel, a large bowl in which they were some traces of dough (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah and his wives used to take a bath from a single vessel (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Zainab the daughter of Umm Salamah narrated from Umm Salamah that:She and the Messenger of Allah used to take a bath from a single vessel (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Men and women used to perform ablution from a single vessel during the time of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet and she used to perform ablution together for prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Firasi said:"I was fishing and I had a vessel with me in which I kept water, and I used seawater for ablution. I mentioned that to the Messenger of Allah and he said: 'Its water is a means of purification, and its dead meat is permissible (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:The Prophet was asked about seawater, and he said: "Its water is a means of purification, and its dead meat is permissible." (Hasan) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Safwan bin 'Assal said:"I poured water for the Prophet on journeys and as a resident, when he performed ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Umm 'Ayyash, the slave woman of Ruqayyah, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah, said:"I used to help the Messenger of Allah perform ablution, when I was standing and he was sitting (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim from his father that:The Messenger of Allah said: "When anyone of you wakes up from sleep, he should not put his hand into the vessel until he has washed it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Harith said:"'Ali called for water, and he washed his hands before putting them in the vessel, then he said: 'This is what I saw the Messenger of Allah doing (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that:The Messenger of Allah said: "There is no ablution for one who does not mention the Name of Allah (before doing it) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed bin Zaid said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no prayer for one who does not have ablution, and there is no ablution for one who does not mention the Name of Allah (before it) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no prayer for one who does not have ablution, and there is no ablution for one who does not mention the Name of Allah (before it) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah liked to start on the right when purifying himself, when combing his hair and when putting on his footwear (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When you perform ablution, start on the right.'" (Da'if) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Messenger of Allah rinsed his mouth and sniffed water up into his nostrils from one scoop of water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali that:The Messenger of Allah performed ablution and he rinsed his mouth three times, and sniffed water up into his nose three times from one handful (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Zaid Al-Ansari said:"The Messenger of Allah came to us and asked us for water for ablution. I brought water to him and he rinsed his mouth and sniffed water up into his nostrils from one handful (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Salamah bin Qais said to me:The Messenger of Allah said to me: 'When you perform ablution, clean your nose, and when you use pebbles to clean yourself after defecating, use an odd number (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Asim bin Laqit bin Sabrah that his father said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Tell me about ablution.' He said: 'Perform ablution properly and sniff water up into your nostrils, thoroughly, unless you are fasting (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:'Sniff up water into the nostrils thoroughly, two or three times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever performs ablution, let him clean his nose, and whoever uses pebbles to clean himself after defecating, let him use an odd number (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Thabit bin Abi Safiyyah Ath-Thumali said:"I asked Abu Ja'far: Was it narrated to you from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Prophet performed ablution washing each part once?' He said: 'Yes.' I said: 'And each part twice, and each part thrice?' He said: 'Yes (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah performing ablution, taking one handful (of water) at a time (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah during the campaign of Tabuk performing ablution, washing each part once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Shaqiq bin Salamah said:"I saw `Uthman and `Ali performing ablution, washing each part three times, and they said: 'This is how the Messenger of Allah used to perform ablution.'" (Hasan) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar:Performed ablution washing each part three times, and he attributed that to the Prophet (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah and Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet did ablution washing each part three times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Awfa said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah performing ablution, washing each part three times, and wiping his head once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Malik Ash'ari said:"The Messenger of Allah used to perform ablution washing each part three times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Rabi' bint Mu'awwidh bin 'Afra' that:The Messenger of Allah performed ablution washing each part three times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ubayy bin Ka'b said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is a devil for ablution who is called Walahan, so be on guard against the insinuating thoughts (Waswas) about water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr heard Kuraib saying:"I heard Ibn 'Abbas say: 'I stayed overnight with my maternal aunt Maimunah, and the Prophet got up and performed ablution from an old water skin, and he did a brief ablution. Then I got up and did the same as he had done (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It is narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah saw a man performing ablution, and he said: 'Do not be extravagant, do not be extravagant (in using water).'" (Maudu) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that:The Messenger of Allah passed by Sa'd when he was performing ablution, and he said: 'What is this extravagance?' He said: 'Can there be any extravagance in ablution?' He said: 'Yes, even if you are on the bank of a flowing river (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded us to perform ablution properly (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet said: "Sins are expiated by well-performed ablution despite difficulties, increasing the number of steps one takes towards the mosque, (and waiting for the next prayer after prayer) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ammar bin Yasir said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah running his fingers through his beard (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uthman that:The Messenger of Allah performed ablution and ran his fingers through his beard (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"When the Messenger of Allah performed ablution, he ran his fingers through his beard and separated his fingers (to let water run through them) twice (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Whenever the Messenger of Allah performed ablution, he rubbed the sides of his face then run his fingers through his beard from beneath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah performing ablution and he ran his fingers through his beard (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthman bin 'Affan said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah performing ablution and he wiped his head once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali that:The Messenger of Allah wiped his head once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Salamah bin Akwa' said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah performing ablution, and he wiped his head once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ar-Rubai' bint Mu'awwidh bin 'Afra' said:"The Messenger of Allah performed ablution and wiped his head twice (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Messenger of Allah wiped his ears, putting his forefingers in his ears and wiping the back of them with his thumbs, so he wiped them inside and out (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Rubai' that:The prophet performed ablution and wiped his ears inside and out (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rubai' bint Mu'awwidh bin 'Afra' said:"The Prophet performed ablution, and he put his fingers in the (holes) inside of his ears (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Miqdam bin Ma'dikarib that:The Messenger of Allah performed ablution and he wiped his head and his ears, inside and out (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Zaid said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The ears are part of the head (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The ears are part of the head." He used to wipe his head once, and he used to wipe over the inner corners of the eyes (that are close to the nose) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The ears are part of the head (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mustawarid bin Shaddad said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah performing ablution, and he ran his little finger between his toes." (Sahih) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:'The Messenger of Allah said: 'When you get up for prayer, perform ablution properly and make the water run between your toes and your fingers (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Asim bin Laqit bin Saabirah narrated that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: perform ablution properly and let the water run between your fingers (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ubaidullah bin Abu Rafi' narrated from his father that:Whenever the Messenger of Allah performed ablution, he moved his ring (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah saw some people performing ablution, and their heels were dry. He said: 'Woe to the heels because of Hell-fire, perform ablution properly (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah said: 'Woe to the heels because of Hell-fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Salamah said:"Aishah saw 'Abdur-Rahman performing abluti0on, and she said: Perform ablution properly, for I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Woe to the Achilles' tendon because of Hell-fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Prophet said: "Woe to the heels because of Hell-fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Woe to the Achilles' tendon because of Hell-fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Khalid bin Walid, Yazid bin Abu Sufyan, Shurahbil bin Hasanah and 'Amr bin 'As that:They all heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Complete the ablution. Woe to the heels because of Hell-fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Haiyah said:"I saw 'Ali performing ablution and he washed his feet up to the ankles, then he said: 'I wanted to show you how your Prophet purified himself (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Miqdam bin Ma'dikarib that:The Messenger of Allah performed ablution; so he washed his feet three times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hakam bin Sufyan Ath-Thawri that:He saw the Messenger of Allah perform ablution then take a handful of water and sprinkle it over his private area to remove any doubts about urine drippings (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When you perform ablution, sprinkle water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah performed ablution and sprinkled his private part (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Umm Hani' bint Abu Talib narrated that :When it was the year of the Conquest (of Makkah), the Messenger of Allah got up to perform a bath and Fatimah screened him. Then he took his garment and wrapped himself in it (such that it became like the towel used to dry oneself) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qais bin Sa'd said:"The Prophet came to us and we gave him water to perform a bath." Then we brought him a Warshiyyah cloth, and he wrapped himself in it. It is as if I can see the marks of the Wars on the folds of his stomach (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that his maternal aunt Maimunah said:"I brought a piece of cloth (for drying) to the Messenger of Allahwhen he performed a bath to cleanse himself from sexual impurity. He refused it and began to shake off water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from salman Al-Farisi that :The Messenger of Allah performed ablution, then he turned inside out the woolen garment that he was wearing and wiped his face with it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Zaid, the Companion of the Prophet, said:"The Messenger of Allah came to us, and we brought water out to him in a vessel of brass, and he performed ablution with it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zainab bint Jahsh that :She had a tub of brass. She said: "I used to comb the hair of the Messenger of Allah in it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet performed ablution using (the water in) a vessel made of brass (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that `A'ishah said:"The Messenger of Allah would fall asleep until he was breathing deeply, then he would get up and offer the prayer, and he did not perform ablution." (Hasan) Tanafisi said: "Waki` said: 'She meant while he was prostrating (he would sleep) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:The Messenger of Allah slept until he was breathing deeply, then he got up and prayed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"He would sleep like that while he was sitting up (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali bin Abu Talib that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The eye is the leather strap (that ties up) the anus, so whoever falls asleep, let him perform ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Safwan bin 'Assal said:"The Messenger of Allah used to command us not to take off our leather socks for three days except in the case of sexual impurity, but not in the case of defecation, urine or sleep (i.e. during travel) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Busrah bint Safwan said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If anyone of you touches his penis, let him perform ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If anyone of you touches his penis, then he has to perform ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Whoever touches his sexual organ then let him perform ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ayyub said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Whoever touches his sexual organ, let him perform ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Qais bin Talq Al-Hanafi narrated that his father said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah being asked about touching the penis. He said: 'That does not require ablution, because it is a part of you (your body) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about touching the penis and he said: 'Rather it is a piece of you (your body) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Perform ablution after (eating) that which has been changed by fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik would place his hands over his ears and say:"May my ears be made deaf, if I did not hear the messenger of Allah saying: 'Perform ablution after (eating) that which has been changed by fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah ate a shoulder, then he wiped his hands on a Mish that was underneath him, then he got up for prayer, and performed the prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Prophet, Abu Bakr and 'Umar ate some bread and meat, and they did not perform ablution (after that) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"Some meat from the shoulder of a sheep was brought to the Messenger of Allah and he ate some of it, then he performed prayer without touching water (for ablution) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah ate meat from the shoulder of a sheep, then he rinsed his mouth and washed his hands, then he prayed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara'bin 'Azib said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about performing ablution after eating camel meat. He said: 'Perform ablution after eating it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded us to perform ablution after eating camel meat but not to perform ablution after eating the mutton (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Usaid bin Hudair said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Do not perform ablution after (drinking) sheep's milk, but perform ablution after (drinking) camel's milk (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Prophet said: 'Rinse your mouths after drinking milk for there is some greasiness in it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah, the wife of the Prophet, said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If you drink milk, then rinse your mouths, for there is some greasiness in it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdul-Muhaimin bin 'Abbas bin Sahl bin Sa'd As-Sa'di narraed from his father, from his grandfather, that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Rinse your mouths after drinking milk, for it has some greasiness in it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah milked a sheep and drank some of its milk, then he called for water and rinsed his mouth and said: 'It has some greasiness in it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Urwah bin Az-Subair narrated from 'Aishah, that:The Messenger of Allah kissed one of his women (i.e., wives), then he went to perform the prayer, and he did not perform ablution. I ('Urwah bin Zubair) said: "That was not anyone but you,' and she smiled (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:"The Messenger of Allah would perform ablution, then he would kiss, then he would perform prayer without performing ablution again. And sometimes he did that with me (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about prostatic fluid and he said: 'For that ablution (is necessary), and for semen, bath is necessary (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Miqdad bin Aswad that:He asked the Prophet about a man who approached his wife, but did not ejaculate. He said: "If anyone of you finds that, he should sprinkle water over his private part (meaning he must wash it) and perform ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Prophet got up during the night and went to the toilet and relieved himself, then he washed his face and hands, and went back to sleep. (Sahih) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah used to perform ablution for every prayer, and we used to perform all of the prayers with one ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Sulaiman bin Buraidah narrated from his father that:The Prophet used to perform ablution for every prayer, but on the day of the conquest of Makkah, he performed all of the prayers with one ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Fadl bin Mubashshir said:"I saw Jabir bin 'Abdullah performing every prayer with one ablution, and I said: 'What is this?' He said: 'I saw the Messenger of Allah doing this, and I am doing as the Messenger of Allah did (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abbad bin Tamim narrated that his paternal uncle said:"A complaint was made to the Prophet about a man who sensed something (some doubt about his ablution) during prayer. He said: 'No (he does not have to perform ablution) unless he notices a smell or hears a sound (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Prophet was asked about doubts (concerning ablution) during prayer. He said: 'he should not leave until he hears a sound or detects an odor (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'No ablution (is needed) unless there is an odor or a sound (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin 'Ata' said:"I saw Sa'ib bin Yazid sniffing his garment, and I said: 'Why (are you doing) that?' He said: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah say: "No ablution (is needed) unless there is an odor or a sound (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubaidullah bin 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If the water is the amount of two or three Qullah, nothing can make it impure (Najis).'" (Sahih) Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah Al-Bahili said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Water is not made impure by anything except that which changes its smell, taste and color (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"A baby boy was brought to the Prophet who then urinated on him. He sprinkled over it with water and did not wash it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Qais bint Mihsan said:"I came to the Messenger of Allah with a son of mine who was not yet eating solid food, and he (the baby) urinated on him. He called for water and sprinkled it over (the urine) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Kurz that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The urine of a boy should be sprinkled over and the urine of a girl should be washed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:A Bedouin urinated in the mosque, and some of the people rushed at him. The Messenger of Allah said: "Do not interrupt him." Then he called for a bucket of water and poured it over (the urine) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah, the wife of the Prophet, said:"I am a woman whose hem is lengthy, and I may walk through a dirty place. The Messenger of Allah said: 'That which comes after it purifies it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:It was said: "O Messenger of Allah, we want to come to the mosque, but the path that we walk upon is impure." The Messenger of Allah said: "Some parts of the earth purify others (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that a woman from (the tribe of) Banu 'Abdul-Ashhal said:"I said to the prophet: 'Between the mosque and I there is a filthy path.' He said: 'After that is there a cleaner path?' I said: 'Yes.' He said: 'This is (a remedy) for that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I often scraped it (semen) from the garment of the Messenger of Allah with my hand (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I remember when I found it (semen) on the garment of the Messenger of Allah and I scratched it off (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'awiyah bin Abu Sufyan that:He asked his sister Umm Habibah, the wife of the Prophet: "Did the Messenger of Allah ever offered prayer in a garment in which he had sexual intercourse?" She said: "Yes, if there was nothing noxious on it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"A man asked the Prophet whether he could perform prayer in a garment in which he had intercourse with his wife. He said: 'Yes, unless he sees something on it, in which case he should wash it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah that:The Messenger of Allah performed ablution and wiped over his leather socks (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdul-Muhaimin bin 'Abbas bin Sahl As-Sa'idi narrated from his father, from his grandfather:"The Messenger of Allah wiped over his leather socks and he ordered us to wipe over the leather socks (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"I was with the Messenger of Allah on a journey, and he said: 'Is there any water?' He performed ablution and wiped over his leather socks, then he joined the army and led them (in prayer) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Buraidah from his father that:An-Najashi gave the Prophet a gift of a pair of plain black leather socks. He put them on, then he (performed ablution and) wiped over them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mughirah bin Shu'bah that:The Messenger of Allah wiped over the top and the bottom of the leather socks (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Khuzaimah bin Thabit said:"The Messenger of Allah set a time limit for the traveler of three days, and if the questioner had persisted in asking, he would have made it five (days) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Khuzaimah bin Thabit that:The Prophet said: "Three days." I think he said, "And three nights during which the traveler may wipe over his leather socks (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"They said: 'O Messenger of Allah! What about the purification of the leather socks?' He said: 'For the traveler it is three days and nights, and for the resident it is one day and one night (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir Al-Juhani that:He came to 'Umar bin Khattab from Egypt. 'Umar said: "How long has it been since you have taken off your leather socks?" He said: "From one Friday to the next." He said: "You have acted in accordance with the Sunnah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mughirah bin Shu'bah that:The Messenger of Allah performed ablution and wiped over his socks and his sandals (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari that:The Messenger of Allah performed ablution and wiped over his socks and his sandals (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bilal that:The Messenger of Allah wiped over his leather socks and his head cover (i.e., over the Imamah) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ja'far bin 'Amr that his father said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah wiping over his leather socks and turban (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah performing ablution, wearing a Qatari turban. He put his hand beneath the turban and wiped the front part of his head, and he did not take the turban off (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ammar [bin Yasir] said:"We did dry ablution with the Messenger of Allah, (wiping our arms) up to our shoulders (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "the earth has been made for me a place of worship and a means of purification (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jubair bin Mut'im said:"(The Companions) disputed in the presence of the Messenger of Allah about having a bath to cleanse oneself from sexual impurity. The Messenger of Allah said: 'As for me, I pour three handfuls of water on my head (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that:A man asked him about having a bath to cleanse oneself from sexual impurity. He said to pour water three times. The man said: "But I have a lot of hair." He said: "The Messenger of Allah had more hair than you and he was cleaner (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! I live in a cold land, so how should I have a bath to cleanse myself from sexual impurity?' He said: 'As for me, I pour three handfuls of water over my head (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah would not perform ablution after the bath to cleanse himself from sexual impurity (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to have a bath to cleanse himself from sexual impurity, then he would warm himself with me before I had the bath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah would become sexually impure and then sleep without water until he got up later on and taken a bath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah, if he needed any of his wives, would satisfy his needs then he would sleep as he was, without touching water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah would become sexually impure then sleep as he was, without touching water. (Da'if)Sufyan said: "I mentioned this Hadith one day, and Isma'il said to me: 'O young man, you should support this Hadith with something else (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"When the Messenger of Allah wanted to sleep and he was sexually impure, he would perform ablution as for prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :'Umar bin Khattab said to the Messenger of Allah: "can anyone of us sleep if he is sexually impure?" He said: "Yes, if he performs ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Khudri that:He used to become sexually impure at night, then he would want to sleep. The Messenger of Allah told him to perform ablution and then go to sleep (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If anyone of you has intercourse with his wife, then he wants to do it again, let him perform ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet used to go round to all his wives with one bath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"I put out water for the Messenger of Allah for a bath, and he had a bath after going to all of his wives in one night (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Rafi' that:The Prophet went around to all of his wives in one night, and he had a bath after each one of them. It was said to him: "O Messenger of Allah, why not make it one bath?" He said: "This is purer, better and cleaner (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"If the Messenger of Allah wanted to eat when he was sexually impure, he would perform ablution (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Prophet was asked about whether a person who is sexually impure can sleep, or eat, or drink. He said: 'yes, if he does ablution as for the prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:If the Prophet wanted to eat when he was sexually impure, he would wash his hands (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'No one who is sexually impure and no woman who is menstruating should recite Qur'an (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'No one who is sexually impure and no woman who is menstruating should recite anything of the Qur'an (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Under every hair there is the state of sexual impurity, so wash the hair and cleanse the skin (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Khawlah bint Hakim that:She asked the Messenger of Allah about a woman who sees in her dream that which a man sees. He said: "She does not have to take a bath unless she has an orgasm, just as man does not have to take a bath unless he has an orgasm (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ayyub said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Water (of bath) is for water (of seminal discharge) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah the wife of the Prophet said:"When the two circumcised parts meet, then bath is obligatory. The Messenger of Allah and I did that, and we bathed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ubayy bin Ka'b said:"That was a concession that was granted in the early days of Islam, then we were commanded to have a bathe after that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "When a man sits between the four parts (arms and legs of his wife) and has intercourse, then bath is obligatory (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When the two circumcised parts meet, and (the tip of the penis) disappears, then bath is obligatory (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Samh said:"I used to serve the Prophet, and when he wanted to take a bath he would say: 'Turn your back to me.' So I would turn my back and hung up a cloth, and concealed him with it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'No one of you should bathe in open land or on a roof where he is not concealed; even if he does not see anyone, he can still be seen (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Arqam said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If anyone of you needs to defecate and the immediate call to prayer (Iqamah) is given, let him start with (relieving himself) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that:The Messenger of Allah forbade a man to perform prayer when he was suppressing (the urge to urinate or defecate) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said, 'No one of you should stand to pray when he feels some discomfort (because of needing to urinate or defecate) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Thawban that:The Messenger of Allah said: "No one among the Muslims should stand to pray when he is suppressing (the need to urinate or defecate), until he has to relieve himself (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Qais bint Mihsan said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about menstrual blood that gets on clothing. He said, 'Wash it with water and lote leaves, and rub it, even with a piece of stick (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Asma' bint Abi Bakr said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about menstrual blood that gets on clothing. He said: 'Rub it off, wash it and perform prayer in (the garment) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aisha the wife of the Prophet said:"One of us used to menstruate, then rub the blood off her garment when she became pure again, and wash it, and sprinkle water over the rest of the garment, then perform prayer in it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said to me: 'Get me a mat from the mosque.' I said: 'I am menstruating.' He said: 'Your menstruation is not in your hand (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet used to bring his head close to me when I was menstruaring and he was in I'tikaf (seclusion in a mosques for the purpose of worship), and I would wash it and comb his hair (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to put his head in my lap when I was menstruating and recite Qur'an (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"If one of us was menstruating, the Messenger of Allah would tell her to tie her waist-wrapper around herself, then he would embrace her (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever has intercourse with a menstruating woman, or with a woman in her rear, or who goes to a fortuneteller and believes what he says, he has disbelieved in that which was revealed to Muhammad (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Prophet said concerning one who has intercourse with a woman when she is menstruating: "Let him give a Dinar or half a Dinar in charity (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet said to her, when she was menstruating: "Undo your braids and bathe." (Sahih)(A narrator) 'Ali said in his narration: "Undo your head (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jasrah said:"Umm Salamah told me: 'The Messenger of Allah entered the courtyard of this mosque and called out at the top of his voice: 'The mosque is not permissible for anyone who is sexually impure or any woman who is menstruating (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"At the time of the Messenger of Allah, women in postnatal bleeding (after childbirth) used to wait for forty days, and we used to put Wars on our faces because of freckles (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah set the time for postnatal bleeding at forty days, except for one who becomes pure before that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"If a man had intercourse with his wife while she was menstruating, the Prophet commanded him to give half a Dinar in charity (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Sa'd said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about eating with a menstruating woman and he said: 'Eat with her (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah was performing prayer, and I was by his side. I was menstruating, and I was wearing a wool cloak, and part of it was over him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Maimunah that:The Messenger of Allah performed prayer wearing a wool cloak. Part of it was over him and part was over her, and she was menstruating (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet entered upon her, and a freed slave girl of hers concealed herself. The Prophet asked: "Have her periods begun?" She said: "Yes." He tore a piece of his turban and said: "Cover your head with this (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet said: "Allah does not accept the prayer of a woman who menstruates (i.e., an adult woman) except with a head cover (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'adh that:A woman asked 'Aishah: "Can a woman who is menstruating, dye her hands?" She said: "We were with the Prophet and we used to dye our hands, and he did not tell us not to do that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali bin Abu Talib said:"I broke one of my forearms and I asked the Prophet about that. He told me to wipe over the bandages." (Maudu') Another chain with similar meaning (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"I saw the Prophet carrying Hasan bin 'Ali on his shoulder, and his saliva was dripping down on him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdul Jabbar bin Wa'il that his father said:"A bucket was brought to the Prophet; he rinsed his mouth and spat into it, and it was like musk or better than musk, and he rinsed his nostrils outside the bucket (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zuhri that:Mahmud bin Rabi' remembered that the Prophet spat into a bucket from a well that belonged to them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri from his father that:The Messenger of Allah said: "No woman should look at the nakedness of another woman, and no man should look at the nakedness of another man (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from a freed slave of 'Aishah that:'Aishah said: "I never looked at (or I never saw) the private part of the Messenger of Allah." (Da'if)(One of the narrators) Abu Bakr (Ibn Abu Shaibah) said: "Abu Nu'aim would say: '(From) a freed female slave of 'Aishah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:A man came to the Prophet; he had performed ablution and has missed a spot the size of a fingernail where water had not reached. The Prophet said to him: 'Go back and perform ablution properly (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar bin Khattab said:"The Messenger of Allah saw a man performing ablution and he missed a spot the size of a fingernail on his foot. He commanded him to repeat the ablution and his prayer, so he did (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The believing women used to perform the Subh prayer with the Prophet, then they would go back to their families and no one would recognize them," meaning of the darkness (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah recited: And recite the Qur'an during the Fajr. Verily, the recitation of the Qur'an during Fajr is ever witnessed." He said: "It is witnessed by the angels of the night and the day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Rafi' bin Khadij that:The Prophet said: "Pray the Subh early, for indeed its reward is greater" or "your reward (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Samurah that:The Prophet used to pray Zuhr when the sun had passed its zenith (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Barzah Al-Aslami said:"The Prophet used to pray the Hajir prayer, which you call 'Zuhr', when the sun had passed its zenith (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Khabbab said:"We complained to the Messenger of Allah about the heat of the sunbaked ground, but he did not respond to our complaint." (Sahih)Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"We complained to the Messenger of Allah about the heat of the sunbaked ground, but he did not respond to our complaint (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When it is very hot, then wait for it to cool down before you pray, for intense heat is from the flaring up of the Hell-fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "When it is very hot, then wait for it to cool down before you pray, for intense heat is from the flaring up of the Hell-fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Wait for it to cool down before you pray, for intense heat is from the flaring up of the Hell-fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Wait for it to cool down before you pray the Zuhr (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:The Messenger of Allah used to pray 'Asr when the sun was still hot and high, and if a person were to go to the suburbs (of Al-Madinah) he would be able to reach it while the sun was still hot and high (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet prayed the 'Asr when the sun was shining into my room and there were no shadows yet (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali bin Abu Talib that,:On the Day of Khandaq, the Messenger of Allah said: "May Allah fill their houses and graves with fire, just as they distracted us from the middle prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The one who misses the 'Asr prayer, it is as if he has been cheated out of his family and wealth (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The idolaters kept the Prophet from the 'Asr prayer until the sun had set. He said: 'They kept us from performing the middle prayer; may Allah fill their graves and their houses with fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Najashi said:"I heard Rafi' bin Khadij say: 'We used to perform the Maghrib at the time of the Messenger of Allah, and one of us would be able to see the places where his arrows would land when shot from his bow.'" (Sahih)Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Akwa' that:He used to pray the Maghrib with the Messenger of Allah when the sun set (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Were it not that it would be too difficult for my Ummah, I would have commanded them to delay the 'Isha (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Were it not that it would be too difficult for my Ummah, I would have delayed the 'Isha' prayer until one third or one half of the night had passed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Buraidah Al-Aslami said:"We were with the Messenger of Allah on a campaign, and he said: 'Hasten to perform prayer on a cloudy day, for whoever misses the 'Asr prayer, all his good deeds will be in vain (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:'The Prophet was asked about a man who forgets prayer or sleeps and misses it. He said: 'he performs it when he remembers it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever forgets a prayer, let him perform it when he remembers it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever catches one Rak'ah of the 'Asr before the sun sets, then he has caught it, and whoever catches one Rak'ah of the Subh before the sun rises, then he has caught it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Messeenger of Allah said: "Whoever catches one Rak'ah of the Subh before the sun rises, then he has caught it, and whoever catches one Rak'ah of the 'Asr before the sun sets, then he has caught it." (Sahih)Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Barzah Al-Aslami said:"The Messenger of Allah used to like to delay the 'Isha', and he disliked sleeping before it, and engaging in conversation after it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah did not sleep before the 'Isha' nor stay up (talking) after it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah rebuked us for staying up (talking) after the 'Isha (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Do not let the Bedouin make you change the name of your prayer. It is the 'Isha', and they bring their camels in and milk them at nightfall (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet said: "Do not let the Bedouins make you change the name of your prayer." Ibn Harmalah added: "Rather it is the 'Isha', but they say the 'Atamah because they bring their camels in for milking at that time (when it is dark) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Sa'd bin 'Ammar bin Sa'd, who was the Mu'adh-dhin of the Messenger of Allah narrated from his grandfather, that:The Messenger of Allah commanded Bilal to put his fingers in his ears when calling the Adhan, and he said: "It makes the voice louder (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Awn bin Abu Juhaifah that his father said:"I came to the Messenger of Allah in Abtah, when he was in a red tent. Bilal came out and gave the call to prayer, turning around and putting his fingers in his ears (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: There are two characteristics in which the Muslims are dependent upon their Mu'adh-dhins: their prayer and their fasting (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"Bilal did not delay the Adhan from its proper time, but he sometimes delayed the Iqamah a little (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthman bin Abul-As said:"The last instruction that the Messenger of Allah gave to me was that I should not appoint a Mu'adh-dhin who took payment for the Adhan." (sahih) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bilal said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded me (with Tathwib) in the Adhan for Fajr, and he forbade me to do so in the Adhan for 'Isha (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When the Mu'adh-dhin calls the Adhan, say as he says (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Umm Habibah narrated that :When the Messenger of Allah was with her on her day and night, and heard the Mu'adh-dhin calling the Adhan, she heard him saying what he said (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When you hear the call (to prayer), say what the Mu'adh-dhin says (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Esa bin Talhah said:"I heard Mu'awiyah bin Abu Sufyan say that Messenger of Allah said: "The Mu'adh-dhin will have the longest necks of all people on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Let the best of you give the call to prayer (Adhan), and let those who are most versed in the Qur'an lead you in prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever calls the Adhan for seven years, seeking reward (from Allah), Allah will decree for him deliverance from the Fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever calls the Adhan for twelve years, he will be guaranteed Paradise, and for each day sixty Hasanat (good deeds) will be recorded for him by virtue of his Adhan, and thirty Hasanat by virtue of his Iqamah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"They looked for something by means of which they could call out informing of (the time of) the prayer. Then Bilal was commanded to say the phrases of the Adhan twice and the phrases of the Iqamah once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"Bilal was commanded to say the phrases of the Adhan twice and the phrases of the Iqamah once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Sa'd bin 'Ammar bin Sa'd narrated (from his great-grandfather of the Messenger of Allah) that:In the Adhan of Bilal, the phrases were two by two, and in his Iqamah they were said once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Rafi' said:"I saw Bilal calling the Adhan in fron of Allah's Messenger, (saying the phrases) two by two, and saying each phrase once in the Iqamah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthman said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever hears the Adhan when he is in the mosque, then goes out and does not go out for any (legitimate) need and does not intend to return, is a hypocrite (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar bin Khattab said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Whoever builds a mosque in which the Name of Allah is mentioned, Allah will build a house for him in Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthman bin 'Affan said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Whoever builds a mosque for the sake of Allah, Allah will build something similar for him in Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali bin Abu Talib said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever builds a mosque for the sake of Allah (from his own wealth), Allah will build a house for him in Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever builds a mosque for the sake of Allah, like a sparrow's nest for Allah or even smaller, Allah will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Hour will not begin until the people compete in (building) mosques (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah said: "I see you building your mosque high after I am gone, just as the Jews built their synagogues high and the Christians built their churches high (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar bin Khattab said:The Messenger of Allah said: "No people's deeds ever became evil deeds but they started to adorn their places of worship (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uthman bin Abul-'As that:The Messenger of Allah commanded him to build the mosque of Ta'if in the place where the Taghuts used to be (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar was asked about gardens in which excrement was thrown.:He said: "If it has been watered several times, then perform prayer there," and he attributed that to the Prophet (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'All the earth is a mosque, except for graveyards and Hammam (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Allah's Messenger prohibited prayer from being performed in seven places: The garbage dump, the slaughtering area, the graveyard, the commonly used road, the bathroom, in the area that camels rest at, and above the Ka'bah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar bin Khattab that:The Messenger of Allah said: "There are seven places where it is not permissible to perform the prayer: The top of the House of Allah; graveyards; garbage dumps; slaughterhouses; bathrooms; the area that camels rest, and the main road (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib from his father that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade buying and selling in the mosque, and reciting poetry in the mosque (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"We used to sleep in the mosque at the time of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:A man among the Ansar sent word to the Messenger of Allah saying: "Come and designate a place in my house where I can perform prayer,' that was after he had become blind. So he went and did that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever removes something harmful from the mosque, Allah will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah commanded that mosque to be built in (Ad-Dur) villages, and that they be purified and perfumed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah commanded that places of prayer be established in villages, and that they be purified and perfumed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The first person who put lamps in the mosque was Tamim Ad-Dari (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet scratched some spittle from the prayer direction of the mosque (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sulaiman bin Burdah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah performed prayer, then a man said: 'Who was looking for the red camel?' The Prophet said: 'May you not find it! The mosques were built for that for which they were built (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib from his father, from his grandfather that:The Messenger of Allah forbade making lost-and-found announcements in the mosque (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah said: "If you cannot find anywhere (for prayer) except sheep's resting-places and camels' resting-places, then perform prayer in the sheep's resting-places and do not perform prayer in the camels' resting-places (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal Al-Muzani said:"The Prophet said: 'Perform prayer in the sheep's resting-places and do not perform prayer in the camels' resting-places, for they were created from the devils (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdul-Malik bin Rabi' bin Sabrah bin Ma'bad Al-Juhani said:"My father told me, from his father that the Messenger of Allah said: 'Do not perform prayer in the camels' resting-places, and perform prayer in the sheep's resting-places (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "When the Iqamah is called for the prayer, do not come running. Come walking with tranquility. Whatever you catch up with, pray, and whatever you miss, complete it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Those who walk to the mosque in the dark are those who are diving into the mercy of Allah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sahl bin Sa'd As-Sa'idi said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Give glad tidings, to those who walk to the mosques in the dark, of perfect light on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Give glad tidings to those who walk to the mosques in the dark, of perfect light on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The greater the distance from the mosque, the greater the reward (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'A man's prayer in congregation is twenty-some levels higher than his prayer in his house or in the marketplace (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The prayer in congregation is twenty-five times more virtuous than the prayer of anyone of you on his own (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'the prayer of a man in congregation is twenty-five levels higher than his prayer in his home (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The prayer of a man in congregation is twenty-seven levels more virtuous than a man's prayer on his own (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ubayy bin Ka'b said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The prayer of a man in congregation is higher than his prayer on his own by twenty-four or twenty-five levels (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Prophet said: "Whoever hears the call and does not come, his prayer is not valid, except for those who have an excuse (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas and Ibn 'Umar narrated that:They heard the Prophet say on his pulpit: "People should desist from failing to attend the congregations, otherwise Allah will seal their hearts, and they will be among the negligent (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Usamah bin Zaid said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Let men desist from failing to attend the congregation, otherwise I will burn their houses down (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If the people knew what (reward) there is in the 'Isha' prayer and fajr prayer, they would come even if they had to crawl (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The most burdensome prayers for the hypocrites are the 'Isha' prayer and the Fajr prayer. If only they knew what (reward) there is in them, they would come to them even if they had to crawl (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar bin Khattab that:The Prophet used to say: "Whoever performs prayer in congregation at the mosque for forty nights, never missing the first Rak'ah of the 'Isha' prayer, Allah will thereby decree for him salvation from the Fire (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet said: "A muslim does not regularly attend the mosques to perform prayer and remember Allah, but Allah feels happy with him just as the family of one who is absent feels happy when he comes back to them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that:The Messenger of Allah said: "If you see a man frequenting the mosques, then bear witness to his faith. Allah says: 'The mosques of Allah shall be maintained only by those who believe in Allah and the Last Day. [At-Taubah:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Muhammad bin ‘Amr bin ‘Ata’ said:“I heard Abu Humaid As-Sa’idi say: ‘When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up for prayer, he would face the prayer direction, raise his hands, and say: “Allahu Akbar (Allah is Most Great).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Mas’ud that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Allahumma inni a’udhu bika minash-Shaitanir-rajim, wa hamzihi wa nafkhihi wa nafthihi (O Allah, I seek refuge in You from the accursed Satan, from his madness, his pride, and his poetry).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Qabisah bin Hulb that his father said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to lead us in prayer, and he would take hold of his left hand with his right.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Wa’il bin Hujr said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing prayer, and he took hold of his left hand with his right.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by me, and I was putting my left hand on my right. He took hold of my right hand and put it on my left.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthman used to start their recitation with “All praises and thanks are to Allah, the Lord of all that exists. (Al- hamdu Lillahi Rabbil-‘Alamin).’” [1:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr and ‘Umar used to start their recitation with ‘All the praises and thanks are to Allah, the Lord of all that exists (Al-hamdu Lillahi Rabbil-‘Alamin).” [1:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to start his recitation with ‘All the praises and thanks are to Allah, the Lord of all that exists’ (Al-hamdu Lillahi Rabbil-‘Alamin),’ [1:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Qutbah bin Malik that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) recite:“And tall date palms, with ranged clusters” [50:10] in the Subh (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amr bin Huraith said:“I performed prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was reciting in the Fajr, and it is as if I can hear him reciting: ‘So verily, I swear by the planets that recede. And by the planets that move swiftly and hide themselves.’”[81:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Barzah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite between sixty and one hundred (Verses) in Fajr prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Qatadah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to lead us in prayer, and he would lengthen the first Rak’ah of the Zuhr and shorten the second Rak’ah, and he would do likewise in the Subh.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Sa’ib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited Al-Mu’minun [Al-Mu’minun 23] in the Subh prayer, and when he came to the mention of ‘Eisa, he was overcome with a cough, so he bowed in Ruku’.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“For the Subh prayer on Fridays, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite ‘Alif-Lam-Mim. The revelation...’ [32:1] and ‘Has there not been over man...’” [76:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mus’ab bin Sa’d that his father said:“For the Fajr prayer on Fridays, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite ‘Alif-Lam-Mim. The revelation...’ [32:1] and ‘Has there not been over man...’” [76:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that for the Subh prayer on Fridays, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite ‘Alif-Lam-Mim’. The revelation...’[32:1] and ‘Has there not been over man...” [76:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud that for the Subh prayer on Fridays, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite “Alif-Lam-Mim. The revelation...” [32:1] and “Has there not been over man..” [76:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ma’mar said:“I said to Khabbab: ‘How did you recognize that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was reciting in the Zuhr and the ‘Asr?’ He said: ‘From the movement of his beard.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“I have never seen anyone whose prayer more closely resembles that of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) than so-and-so. He used to lengthen the first two Rak’ah of the Zuhr and shorten the last two Rak’ah, and he used to shorten the ‘Asr.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Abu Qatadah that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite when leading us in the first two Rak’ah of the Zuhr prayer, and sometimes he would recite such that we could hear the Verse.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara’ bin ‘Azib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to lead us for the Zuhr, and we would hear him reciting a Verse after the Verses from Surat Luqman (31) and Adh-Dhariyat (51).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said, narrating from his mother (one of the narrators) Abu Bakr bin Abu Shaibah said:“(She was) Lubabah” that she heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting ‘By the winds sent forth one after another...’[Al-Mursalat (77)] in the Maghrib (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite in the Maghrib: ‘Say: O you disbelievers!’[Al-Kafirun (109)] and ‘Say: He is Allah, (the) One.’”[Al-Ikhlas] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bara’ bin ‘Azib that he performed the ‘Isha’, the later, with the Prophet (ﷺ). He said:“I heard him reciting ‘By the fig, and the olive’.”[Al-Tin] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Adi bin Thabit narrated something similar from Bara’ and said:“I have never heard any man with a better voice or who recites better than him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubadah bin Samit that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There is no prayer for the one who does not recite Fatihatil-Kitab in it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘There is no prayer for the one who does not recite in every Rak’ah: Al-Hamd (Al-Fatihah) and a Surah whether in an obligatory prayer or another.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Every prayer in which the Ummul-Kitab (the Mother of the Book) is not recited is deficient.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every prayer in which Fatihatil-Kitab (the Opening of the Book) is not recited, it is deficient, it is deficient.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“We used to recite the Opening of the Book and a Surah behind the Imam in the first two Rak’ah of the Zuhr and the ‘Asr, and in the last wo Rak’ah (we would recite) the Opening of the Book.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Samurah said:“I memorized two pauses in the prayer, a pause before reciting and a pause when bowing. ‘Imran bin Husain denied that, so they wrote to Al-Madinah, to Ubayy bin Ka’b, and he said that Samurah was speaking the truth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa Al-Ash’ari said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘When the Imam recites, then listen attentively, and if he is sitting (in the prayer) then the first remembrance that anyone of you recites should be the Tashahhud.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in prayer,” and he mentioned a similar report, and added to it, and he said: “And after that they were quiet in the prayers in which the Imam recites aloud.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever has an Imam, the recitation of the Imam is his recitation.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When the reciter says Amin, then say Amin, for the angels say Amin, and if a person’s Amin coincides with the Amin of the angels, his previous sins will be forgiven.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “When the reciter says Amin, then say Amin, for if a person’s Amin coincides with the Amin of the angels, his previous sins will be forgiven.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying ‘Amin’ after he said, ‘nor of those who went astray.’[1:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdul-Jabbar bin Wa’il that his father said:“I performed prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) and when he said: ‘Nor of those who went astray’,[1:7] he said Amin and we heard that from him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The Jews do not envy you for anything more than they envy you for the Salam and (saying) ‘Amin’.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Jews do not envy you for anything more than they envy you for the Salam and (saying) Amin, so say Amin a great deal.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Malik bin Huwairith said that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said Allahu Akbar, he would raise his hands until they were close to his ears; when he bowed in Ruku’ he did likewise, and when he raised his head from Ruku’ he did likewise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raising his hands during prayer until they were parallel with his shoulders when he started to pray, when he bowed and when he prostrated.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Umair bin Habib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to raise his hands at every Takbir (saying Allahu Akbar) in the obligatory prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to raise his hands at every Takbir (saying Allahu Akbar) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to raise his hands when he entered prayer, and when he bowed in Ruku’ (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) bowed, he neither raised his head nor lowered it, rather (he did something) between that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Mas’ud said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘No prayer is acceptable in which a man does not settle his spine when bowing and when prostrating.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rashid said:“I heard Wabisah bin Ma’bad saying: ‘I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing prayer, and when he bowed he made his back so straight that if water were poured on it, it would have stayed there.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mus’ab bin Sa’d said:“I bowed (in prayer) beside my father, and I put my hands between my knees. He struck my hand and said: ‘We used to do that, then we were commanded to put them on the knees.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to bow with his hands on his knees and his upper arms held away from his sides.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Sami’ Allahu liman hamidah (Allah hears those who praise Him),” he said: “Rabbana wa lakal-hamd (O our Lord, to You is the praise).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When the Imam says: ‘Sami’ Allahu liman hamidah (Allah hears those who praise Him),’ say: ‘Rabbana wa lakal-hamd (O our Lord, to You is the praise).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“When the Imam says: ‘Sami’ Allahu liman hamidah (Allah hears those who praise Him),’ say: ‘Allahumma, Rabbana wa lakal-hamd (O Allah! O our Lord! To You is the praise).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Maimunah that when the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated, he would hold his forearms away from his sides, such that if a lamb wanted to pass under his arms, it would be able to do so (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Wa’il bin Hujr said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) when he prostrated and put his knees on the ground before his hands, and when he stood up after prostrating, he took his hands off the ground before his knees.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“I have been commanded to prostrate on seven bones.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “I have been commanded to prostrate on seven, but not to tuck up my hair or my garment.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abbas bin ‘Abdul-Muttalib that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say:“When a person prostrates, seven parts of his body prostrate with him: His face, his two hands, his two knees, and his two feet.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ahmar, the Companion of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), narrated to us:“We used to feel sorry for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) because he took pains to keep his arms away from his sides when he prostrated.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “When anyone of you prostrates let him be balanced in prostration, and not spread his arms as a dog does.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Be balanced in prostration; none of you should prostrate with his arms spread out like a dog.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: “Do not squat between the two prostrations.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘O ‘Ali, do not squat like a dog.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me: ‘When you raise your head from prostration, do not squat like a dog. Put your buttocks between your feet and let the tops of your feet touch the ground.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say between the two prostrations:“Rabbighfir li, Rabbighfir li (O Lord forgive me, O Lord forgive me).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever forgets to send peace and blessings upon me, then he has missed the road to Paradise.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Malik bin Numair Al-Khuza’i that his father said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) putting his right hand on his right thigh during prayer, and pointing with his finger.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Wa’il bin Hujr said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) making a circle with his thumb and middle finger, and raising the one next to it (the index finger), supplicating with it during the Tashah-hud.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to sit during prayer, putting his hands on his knees and raising his right finger which was next to his thumb, supplicating with it, and with his left hand (spread out) on his knee (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the Salam to his right and his left, until the whiteness of his cheek could be seen (saying):“As-salamu ‘alaikum wa rahmatullah (Peace be upon you and the mercy of Allah).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amir bin Sa’d, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the Salam to his right and to his left (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ammar bin Yasir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the Salam to his right and to his left, until the whiteness of his cheek could be seen (saying): ‘As-salamu ‘alaikum wa rahmatullah, as-salamu ‘alaikum wa rahmatullah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:“Ali led us in prayer on the day of (the battle of) the Camel, in a way that reminded us of the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). Either we had forgotten it or we had abandoned it. He said the Salam to his right and to his left.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdul-Muhaimin bin ‘Abbas bin Sahl bin Sa’d As-Sa’idi narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said one Taslim to the front (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham bin ‘Urwah, from his father, from ‘Aishah, that the Messenger of Allah (saW) used to say one Salam, to the front (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Salamah bin Akwa’ said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing the prayer, and he said one Salam.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundub that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When the Imam says the Salam, then respond to him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah bin Jundab said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to greet our Imam with Salam, and to greet one another with Salam.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Thawban said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘No person should lead others in prayer, then supplicate only for himself and not for them. If he does that, he has betrayed them.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Qabisah bin Hulb that his father said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) led us (in prayer), and he used to depart from both sides. (i.e. from either side).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) departing to his right and to his left when he finished the prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:“When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the Salam, the women would stand up when he finished his Taslim, and he would stay where he was for a little while before standing up. (i.e. to depart).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If food is served and the Iqamah for prayer is given, then start with the food.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi’ that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘If food is served and the Iqamah for prayer is given, then start with the food.” He said: "Ibn 'Umar ate dinner one night while he could hear the Iqamah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If food is ready and the Iqamah is being given, then start with the food.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“On rainy nights or on cold windy nights, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would summon his announcer to call out: ‘Perform your prayer at your camps.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, on a Friday that was rainy:“Perform your prayer at your camps.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“A small spear (Harbah) would be brought out to the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was travelling; he would plant it (in the ground) to perform prayer while facing it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah had a reed mat that he would spread out during the day, and make into a compartment at night, towards which he would perform prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘If anyone of you knew (how great is the sin involved) in passing in front of his brother while he is performing prayer, waiting for one hundred years would be better for him than one step that he takes.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) was performing prayer at ‘Arafat, and Fadl and I came riding a female donkey. We passed in front of part of the row, then we dismounted and left the donkey, and we came and joined the row.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The prayer is severed by a black dog and a woman who has reached the age of menstruation.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The prayer is severed by a woman, a dog and a donkey.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Mughaffal that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The prayer is severed by a woman, a dog and a donkey.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you is performing prayer, he should not let anyone pass in front of him. If he insists then let him fight him, for he has a Qarin (devil-companion) with him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray at night, and I was laying between him and the prayer direction, as a (body for a) funeral horizontally.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zainab bint Umm Salamah that her mother said that her bed was in front of the place where the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Maimunah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform prayer when I was opposite to him, and his garment would sometimes touch me when he prostrated.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade performing prayer behind one who is engaged in conversation or one who is sleeping.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to teach us not to bow or prostrate before the Imam; when he says the Takbir then say the Takbir, and when he prostrates, you should prostrate.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Does not the one who raises his head before the Imam fear that Allah may turn his head into the head of a donkey?’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘I have gained weight, so when I bow, then bow, and when I stand up, then stand up, and when I prostrate, then prostrate. I should never find anyone preceding me in bowing or prostration.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“It is impolite for a man to wipe his forehead a great deal before he finishes prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ali that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not crack your fingers during the prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade a man to cover his mouth during the prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ka’b bin ‘Ujrah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a man who had interlocked his fingers during the prayer, so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) separated his fingers (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you yawns, let him put his hand over his mouth and not make a sound, because Satan laughs at him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Adi bin Thabit, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Spitting, blowing one’s nose, menstruating and drowsiness during the prayer are from Satan.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa Al-Ash’ari said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Two or more people are a congregation.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“I stayed overnight with my maternal aunt Maimunah, and the Prophet (ﷺ) got up during the night to perform prayer. So I got up and stood on his left. He took me by the hand and made me stand on his right.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Shurahbil said:“I heard Jabir bin ‘Abdullah say: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was performing Maghrib, and I came and stood on his left, but he made me stand on his right.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led a woman of his household and myself in prayer. I stood to his right and the woman stood behind us.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) liked the Muhajirun and Ansar to stand closest to him, so that they could learn from him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw that some of his Companions tended to stand in the rear, so he said:“Come forward and follow me, and let those who are behind you follow your lead. If people continue to lag behind, Allah will put them back.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Malik bin Huwairith said:“I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with a friend of mine, and when we wanted to leave, he said to us: ‘When the time for prayer comes, say the Adhan and Iqamah, then let the older of you lead the prayer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Salamah bint Hurr, the sister of Kharashah, said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: ‘A time will come when the people will stand for a long time and will not be able to find any Imam to lead them in prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to make his prayer brief but perfect.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Uthman bin Abul-‘As narrated that the last thing the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) enjoined on him was that he said:“When you lead people, keep it short for them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘I start prayer and I want to make it long, but then I hear an infant crying, so I make my prayer short, because I know the distress caused to the mother by his crying.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Uthman bin Abul-‘As said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘I hear an infant crying so I make the prayer short.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Abu Qatadah that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘I get up to perform prayer and I intend to make it long, but then I hear an infant crying, so I make it short, because I do not like to cause distress to his mother.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Make your rows straight, for straightening the rows is part of completing the prayer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Allah and His angels send blessings upon those who complete the rows, and whoever fills a gap, Allah will raise him one degree in status thereby.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Irbad bin Sariyah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to ask for forgiveness for the first row three times and for the second row twice (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Bara’ bin ‘Azib said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Allah and the angels send blessings upon the first row.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘If they knew what (goodness) there is in the first row, they would cast lots for it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibrahim bin ‘Abdur-Rahman bin ‘Awf that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Allah and the angels send blessings upon the first row.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The best rows for women are the back rows, and the worst are the front rows, and the best rows for men are the front rows, and the worst are the back rows.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The best rows for men are the front rows and the worst rows are the back rows, and the best rows for women are the back rows and the worst are the front rows.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu’awiyah bin Qurrah that his father said:“We were forbidden to form a row between two pillars at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and we would be repelled from them forcefully.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hilal bin Yasaf said:“Ziyad bin Abu-Ja’d took me by the hand and made me stand near an old man at Raqqah, whose name was Wabisah bin Ma’bad. He said: ‘A man performed prayer behind the row on his own, and the Prophet (ﷺ) commanded him to repeat the prayer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Allah and His angels send blessings upon the right side of the rows.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara’ said:“When we performed prayer behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (One of the narrators) Mis’ar said: ‘One of the things we liked, or one of the things I liked’ ‘was to stand to his right.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“It was said to the Prophet (ﷺ): ‘The left side of the mosque has been abandoned. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: “Whoever frequents the left side of the mosque, two Kifl* of reward will be recorded for him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik told that ‘Umar said:“I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), why do you not take the Maqam of Ibrahim as a place of prayer?’ Then the following was revealed: ‘And take you (people) the Maqam of Ibrahim as a place of prayer.’” [2:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘What is between the east and the west is the Qiblah (prayer direction).’”* *This refers to the Qiblah for the the inhabitants of Al-Madinah. (Makkah is to the exact south of Al-Madinah) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you enters the mosque, let him not sit down until he performs two Rak’ah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When one of you enters the mosque, let him perform two Rak’ah before he sits down.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever eats from this plant; garlic, let him not annoy us with it in this mosque of ours.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever eats anything from this plant, let him not come to the mosque.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) sent me on an errand, then I caught up with him while he was performing prayer, and I greeted him. He gestured to me, then when he finished, he called me and said: ‘You greeted me before, but I was performing prayer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah said:“We would greet others during the prayer, and it was said to us: ‘During the prayer one is preoccupied.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Tariq bin ‘Abdullah Al-Muharibi said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘When you perform prayer, do not spit in front of you or to your right, but spit to your left or beneath your feet.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spat on his garment while he was performing prayer, then he rubbed it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Whoever smoothes the pebbles, then he has engaged in Laghw.”* *Meaning he has done what is not suitable (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mu’aiqib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, concerning smoothing the pebbles during prayer: ‘If you must do that, then do it only once.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘When anyone of you gets up to perform prayer, then indeed mercy is facing him, so he should not smooth the pebbles.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Maimunah the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform prayer on a Khumrah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed prayer on a reed mat.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amr bin Dinar said:“When Ibn ‘Abbas was in Basrah, he performed prayer on his rug, then he told his companions that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform prayer on his rug.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Abdur-Rahman said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us and led us in prayer in the mosque of Banu ‘Abdul- Ashhal, and I saw him putting his hands on his garment when he prostrated.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“We used to perform prayer with the Prophet (ﷺ) when it was very hot. When one of us could not place his forehead firmly on the ground, he would spread his garment and prostrate on it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Tasbih (saying Subhan-Allah) is for men and clapping is for women.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sahl bin Sa’d As-Sa’idi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Tasbih is for men and clapping is for women.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Nafi’ used to say:“Ibn ‘Umar said: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) granted a concession for the women to clap, and for the men to say the Tasbih.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abu Aws said:“My grandfather, Aws, used to perform prayer, and sometimes he would make a gesture while praying, and I would give him his sandals. He said: ‘I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing prayer in his sandals.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing prayer both barefoot, and while wearing sandals.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah said:“We saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing prayer wearing sandals and leather slippers.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: “I was commanded not to tuck up my hair or my garment.”* *Drawing together during prostration to protect it from the dirt (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah said:“We were ordered to not (tuck up our) hair (nor garment) and not to repeat ablution for what we stepped on.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Do not lift your gaze to the heavens lest your sight be snatched away,” meaning during prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Samurah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Let those who lift their gaze to the heavens desist, or their sight will not come back.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: ‘O Messenger of Allah! One of us performs prayer in a single garment.’ The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘Does everyone have two garments?’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri narrated that he entered upon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he was performing prayer in a single garment, wrapping himself in it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Umar bin Abu Salamah said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing prayer in a single garment, wrapping himself in it and throwing the ends over his shoulders.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdur-Rahman bin Kaisan that his father said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing prayer at Bi’r ‘Ulya, in a garment.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn Kaisan narrated that his father said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing the Zuhr and the ‘Asr in a single garment, wrapping it around his chest.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Darda’ said:“Abu Darda’ told me that he did eleven prostrations* with the Prophet (ﷺ), including An-Najm.” *Eleven Ayaat of prostrations (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin ‘As that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) taught him fifteen prostrations in the Qur’an, including three in the Mufassal and two in Al-Hajj (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“We prostrated with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in “When the heaven is split asunder” [84:1] and “Read! In the Name of your Lord.” [96:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated in “When the heaven is split asunder.” [84:1] Abu Bakr bin Abu Shaibah said:"This Hadith was narrated from Yahya bin Sa'eed; I did not hear it from anyone but him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Umar said:“The prayer while traveling is two Rak’ah, and Friday is two Rak’ah, and ‘Eid is two Rak’ah. They are complete and are not shortened, as told by Muhammad (ﷺ).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Umar said:“The prayer when traveling is two Rak’ah, and Friday is two Rak’ah, and Al-Fitr and Al-Adha are two Rak’ah, complete, not shortened, as told by Muhammad (ﷺ).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out from this city (Al-Madinah) he did not perform more than two Rak’ah for prayer until he returned.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“Allah enjoined the prayer upon the tongue of your Prophet (ﷺ): Four Rak’ah while a resident and two Rak’ah when traveling.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu’adh bin Jabal that the Prophet (ﷺ) combined the Zuhr and ‘Asr, and the Maghrib and ‘Isha’ when traveling during the campaign of Tabuk (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Ata’ narrated:“Jabir bin ‘Abdullah, who was among the people with me, told me that the Prophet (ﷺ) arrived in Makkah in the morning of the fourth day of Dhul-Hijjah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stayed in Makkah for fifteen nights during the year of the Conquest, (during which time) he shortened his prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Yahya bin Abu Ishaq narrated that Anas said:“We went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) from Al-Madinah to Makkah, during which time we shortened our prayer to two Rak’ah, until we came back.” I asked: “How long did he stay in Makkah?” He said: “Ten (days).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Between a person and Kufr (disbelief) is abandoning the prayer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdullah bin Buraidah narrated that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The covenant that distinguishes between us and them is prayer; so whoever leaves it, he has committed Kufr.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There is nothing standing between a person and Shirk (polytheism) except leaving the prayer, so if he leaves it he has committed Shirk.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“From one Friday to the next is an expiation for whatever was committed in between, so long as one does not commit any major sin.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say from the pulpit: ‘Whoever comes to Friday, let him take a bath.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Bath on Fridays is obligatory for every male who has reached the age of puberty.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever performs ablution on Friday, it is well and good for him, and he has done what is obligatory for him. But whoever takes a bath, bath is better.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sahl bin Sa’d said:“We did not take a Qailulah nor eat Ghada’ until after Friday (prayer).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Iyas bin Salamah bin Akwa’ narrated that his father said:“We used to perform Friday (prayer) with the Prophet (ﷺ), then we would return, and we would not see any shadow from the walls in which we could seek shade.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“We used to perform the Friday (prayer), then we would return for a nap (Qailulah).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver two sermons, and he would sit briefly between the two. (One of the narrators) Bishr added:“While he was standing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ja’far bin ‘Amr bin Huraith that his father said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the sermon on the pulpit, wearing a black turban.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Simak bin Harb said:“I heard Jabir bin Samurah say: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to deliver the sermon standing, but he used to sit down briefly, then stand up.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Alqamah narrated that ‘Abdullah was asked whether the Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver the sermon standing or sitting. He said:“Have you not read the Verse: ‘...and leave you (Muhammad) standing (while delivering the Friday sermon?” [62:) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) ascended the pulpit he would greet (the people with Salam) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If you say to your companions: ‘Be quiet’ on a Friday while the Imam is delivering the sermon, you have engaged in Laghw (idle talk or behaviour).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“Sulaik Ghatafani entered the mosque when the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the sermon. He said: ‘Have you prayed?’ He said: ‘No.’ He said: ‘Then perform two Rak’ah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“A man entered the mosque when the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the sermon. He said: ‘Have you prayed?’ He said: ‘No.’ He said: ‘Then pray two Rak’ah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“Sulaik Al-Ghatafani came while the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was delivering the sermon. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him: ‘Did you perform two Rak’ah before you came?’ He said: ‘No.’ He said: ‘Then perform two Rak’ah, but make them brief.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sahl bin Mu’adh bin Anas that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever steps over the people’s necks on Friday has built a bridge to Hell.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the people used to speak to the Prophet (ﷺ) about their needs when he came down from the pulpit on Friday (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu ‘Inabah Al-Khawlani that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite “Glorify the Name of your Lord the Most High” and “Has there come to you the narration of the overwhelming (i.e., the Day of Resurrection)? [Al-A’la (87) and Al-Ghashiyah (88)] on Friday (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever catches one Rak’ah of Friday, let him add another Rak’ah to it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever catches one Rak’ah of prayer, he has caught it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever catches one Rak’ah of Friday prayer or other than it, then he has caught the prayer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The people of Quba’ used to pray with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on Fridays.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ja’d Ad-Damri who was a Companion said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever abandons Friday (prayer) three times, neglecting it, a seal will be placed over his heart.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever abandons Friday (prayer) three times, for no necessary reason, Allah will place a seal over his heart.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundab that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever abandons Friday deliberately, let him give a Dinar in charity, and if he cannot afford that, then (let him give) half a Dinar.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform four Rak’ah before Friday (prayer), and he did not separate any of them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that when ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar had prayed Friday, he went and prayed two Rak’ah in his house. Then he said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray two Rak’ah after Jumu’ah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘If you pray after Friday, then pray four (Rak’ah).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade sitting in circles in the mosque on Fridays before the prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Adi bin Thabit that his father said:“When the Prophet (ﷺ) stood on the pulpit, his Companions would turn to face him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Habibah bint Abi Sufyan that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever performs twelve Rak’ah (of Sunnah) during the day and night, a house will be built for him in Paradise.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that when the dawn illuminated, the Prophet (ﷺ) would pray two Rak’ah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two Rak’ah before the morning (prayer), as if the Adhan were in his ears. (i.e., he would pray them briefly) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah bint ‘Umar that when the call for the Subh prayer was given, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would pray two short Rak’ah before going to the prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“When he performed ablution the Prophet (ﷺ) would pray two (short) Rak’ah and then go out for the prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform two Rak’ah at the time of the Iqamah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that in the two Rak’ah before the Fajr, the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite:“Say: ‘O you disbelievers!” [Al-Kafirun (109)] and “Say: Allah is One.” [Al-Ikhlas] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“I watched the Prophet (ﷺ) for a month, and in the two Rak’ah before Fajr he used to recite: “Say: O you disbelievers!” [Al-Kafirun (109)] and “Say: Allah is One.” [Al- Ikhlas] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform two Rak’ah before Fajr, and he used to say: ‘The best two Surah to recite in the two Rak’ah of Fajr are: “Say: Allah is One” [Al-Ikhlas (112)] and “Say: O you disbelievers.” [Al-Kafirun] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Once the Iqamah has been called, there should be no prayer but the obligatory one.” Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) slept and missed the two Rak’ah before Fajr, so he made them up after the sun had risen (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ayyub that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to perform four Rak’ah before the Zuhr when the sun had passed its zenith, and he did not separate them with a Taslim. He said, “The gates of heaven are opened when the sun passes its zenith.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“If the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) missed the four Rak’ah before the Zuhr, he would perform them after the two Rak’ah which come after the Zuhr.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Habibah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever prays four Rak’ah before the Zuhr and four afterwards, Allah will forbid him to the Fire.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Mughaffal said:“The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Between every two Adhans there is a prayer.’ He said it three times, and on the third time he said, ‘For those who wish.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray the Maghrib, then he would come back to my house and pray two Rak’ah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi’ bin Khadij said:“We came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with Banu ‘Abdul-Ashhal, and he led us in praying the Maghrib in our mosque. Then he said: ‘Pray these two Rak’ah in your houses.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud that for the two Rak’ah after Maghrib, the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite:“Say: O you disbelievers!” [Al-Kafirun (109)] and “Say: He is Allah the One.” [Al- Ikhlas] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever prays six Rak’ah after the Maghrib and does not say anything bad in between them, will have a reward equal to the worship of twelve years.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Kharijah bin Hudhafah Al-‘Adawi said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) came out to us and said: ‘Allah has increased a prayer for you which is better for you than red camels. (It is) Witr, which Allah has enjoined on you between the ‘Isha’ prayer and the onset of dawn.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Allah is Witr and He loves the odd (numbered), so perform Witr, O people of the Qur’an.” A Bedouin said: ‘What is the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying?’ He said: ‘That is not for you or your companions.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ubayy bin Ka’b said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Witr and recite: ‘Glorify the Name of your Lord the Most High.’, [Al-A’la (87)] ‘Say: O you disbelievers!” [Al-Kafirun (109)] and ‘Say: Allah is One.”. [Al-Ikhlas] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray (voluntary prayers) at night two by two, and he would pray one Rak’ah of Witr.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
A man asked Ibn ‘Umar:“How should I perform Witr?” He said: “Pray Witr with one Rak’ah.” He said: “I am afraid that the people will say that I am cutting the prayer short.” He said: “The Sunnah of Allah and His Messenger.” Meaning “This is the Sunnah of Allah and His Messenger.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say Taslim after every two Rak’ah, and he would perform Witr with one Rak’ah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) did not raise his hands in any of his supplications except when praying for rain (Istisqa’), when he raised his hands so high that the whiteness of his armpits could be seen (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘When you call upon Allah, then do so with the palms of your hands (upwards). Do not do so with the back of your hands (upwards). And when you finish, then wipe your face with them.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ubayy bin Ka’b that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray Witr and he would recite Qunut before Ruku’ (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:He was asked about Qunut in the Subh prayer, and he said: “We used to recite Qunut before Ruku’ and afterwards.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Muhammad said:“I asked Anas bin Malik about Qunut, and he said: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited Qunut after Ruku’.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Masruq said:“I asked ‘Aishah about the Witr of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). She said: ‘He prayed Witr at every part of the night, at the beginning, in the middle and at the end, when he died (he would perform it) just before dawn.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“At every part of the night the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed Witr, at the beginning and in the middle, and finally his Witr was just before dawn.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever sleeps and misses Witr, or forgets it, let him pray it when morning comes, or when he remembers.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Pray Witr before morning comes.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Witr is Haqq.* Whoever wishes let him pray Witr with five (Rak’ah), and whoever wishes let him pray Witr with three (Rak’ah), and whoever wishes let him pray Witr with one (Rak’ah).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray Witr with seven or five Rak’ah, and he would not say Salam or speak in between them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two Rak’ah while traveling, and he did not do more than that. And he used to pray Tahajjud at night.” I asked: “Did he pray Witr?” He said: “Yes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas and Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prescribed two Rak’ah of prayer when traveling; they are complete and are not shortened. And Witr when traveling is Sunnah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray two short Rak’ah after Witr, sitting down (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Salamah said:“Aishah narrated to me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed Witr with one Rak’ah, then he prayed two Rak’ah in which he recited while sitting, then when he wanted to bow, he stood up and bowed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I never used to see the Prophet (ﷺ) at the end of the night, except that he was sleeping near me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“When the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed the two (Sunnah) Rak’ah of Fajr, he would lie down on his right side.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“When the Messenger of Allah (saw prayed the two (Sunnah) Rak’ah of Fajr, he would lie down.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray Witr while riding his mount (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah said:“(Once) the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed Zuhr with five Rak’ah, and it was said to him: ‘Has something been added to the prayer?’ He said: ‘What is that?’ They told him, and he turned back towards the Qiblah and performed two prostrations.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buhainah:“The Prophet (ﷺ) offered prayer, I think it was the ‘Asr, and in the second Rak’ah he stood up before he sat. Before he said the Salam, he prostrated twice.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘If anyone of you is uncertain about his prayer, let him try to do what is correct then let him prostrate twice.’” Tanafisi said: "This is the basic rule, and no one is able to reject it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The Satan comes between the son of Adam and his soul, and he does not know how many Rak’ah he has prayed. If a person notices that, then let him prostrate twice before he says the Salam.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Alqamah that Ibn Mas’ud prostrated twice for the prostrations of forgetfulness after the Salam, and he mentioned that the Prophet (ﷺ) did that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Thawban said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘For every mistake there are two prostrations, after saying the Salam.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever vomits, has a nosebleed, belches, or emits prostatic fluid, should stop praying; perform ablution, then resume his prayer, and while he is in that state he should not speak.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you performs prayer and commits Hadath, (passing wind) let him take hold of his nose, then leave.” Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Imran bin Husain said:“I suffered from Nasur* and I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about prayer. He said: ‘Perform prayer standing; if you cannot, then sitting; and if you cannot then while lying on your side.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Wa’il bin Hujr said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing prayer while sitting on his right side when he was sick.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite Qur’an sitting down, then when he wanted to bow he would stand up for as long as it takes a person to recite forty Verses.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr that the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by him when he was praying sitting down. He said:“The prayer of one who sits down is equivalent to half of the prayer of one who stands.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out and saw some people praying while sitting down. He said:“The prayer of one who sits down is equivalent to half of the prayer of one who stands.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Sa’d bin Tariq said:“I said to my father: ‘O my father! You prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and behind Abu Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthman, and behind ‘Ali here in Kufah for about five years. Did they recite Qunut in Fajr?’ He said: ‘O my son! That is an innovation.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was forbidden to recite Qunut in Fajr.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite Qunut in the Subh prayer, and he used to supplicate in it against one of the Arab tribes for a month, then he stopped doing so (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) commanded killing the two black ones during prayer; the scorpion and the snake (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abu Rafi’, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) killed a scorpion while he was praying (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade two prayers:prayer after the Fajr until the sun has risen, and prayer after ‘Asr until the sun has set (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There is no prayer after the ‘Asr until the sun has set, and there is no prayer after the Fajr until the sun has risen.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jubair bin Mut’im said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘O Banu ‘Abd Manaf! Do not prevent anyone from circumambulating this House or praying at any time he wants of the day or night.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘You may come across people who offer a prayer at the wrong time. If you meet them, then perform prayer in your houses at the time that you know, then pray with them and make that voluntary.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Offer prayer on time, and if you reached the Imam leading them in prayers (on time), then perform it with them, and you will be safe with your prayer, otherwise it will be voluntary for you.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubadah bin Samit that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There will be leaders who will be distracted by matters and they will delay the prayer until after its proper time. So make your prayer with them voluntary.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Mas’ud said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “The sun and the moon do not become eclipsed for the death of anyone among mankind. If you see that, then stand and perform prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah bin Jundab said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in the eclipse prayer, and we did not hear his voice.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu’tamir narrated from his father, from Barakah, from Bashir bin Nahik, from Abu Hurairah:“The Prophet (ﷺ) supplicated for rain (raising his hands) until I saw or one could see the whiteness of his armpits.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed on the day of ‘Eid with no Adhan and no Iqamah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Prophet (ﷺ), then Abu Bakr, then ‘Umar, used to pray the ‘Eid prayer before delivering the sermon.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said the Takbir seven times and five times in the ‘Eid prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Kathir bin ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr bin ‘Awf narrated, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the Takbir in the ‘Eid prayers, seven times in the first Rak’ah and five times in the second (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the Takbir seven and five times in (the prayer for ‘Eid) Fitr and Adha, apart from the Takbir for Ruku’ (bowing) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nu’man bin Bashir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite “Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High,” [Al-A’la (87)] and “Has there come to you the narration of the overwhelming?” [Al-Ghashiyah (88)] in the ‘Eid prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ubaidullah bin ‘Abdullah said:“Umar went out on the day of ‘Eid and sent word to Abu Waqid Al-Laithi asking what the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite on this day. He said: ‘Qaf [Qaf (50)] and ‘Iqtarabat’.” [Al-Qamar] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite in the ‘Eid prayer “Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High.” [Al-A’la (87)] and “Has there come to you the narration of the overwhelming?” [Al-Ghashiyah] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Isma’il bin Abu Khalid said:“I saw Abu Kahil, and he was a Companions, and my brother narrated to me that he said: ‘I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the sermon atop his she-camel, and an Ethiopian was holding onto its reins.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qais bin ‘Aidh, who was Abu Kahil, said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the sermon atop a beautiful she-camel, and an Ethiopian was holding onto its reins.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Nubait that his father performed Hajj and said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the sermon atop his camel.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdur-Rahman bin Sa’d bin ‘Ammar bin Sa’d, the Mu’adhdhin, that his father narrated, from his father, that his grandfather said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say the Takbir between the two sermons and he used to say the Takbir a great deal in the sermon of ‘Eid.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out on the Day of Al-Fitr or Al-Adha, and delivered a sermon standing up. Then he sat down briefly, then stood up again.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out and led them in the ‘Eid prayer, and he did not pray before it or after it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) did not pray before or after the ‘Eid prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not pray before the ‘Eid prayer, but when he went back to his house he would pray two Rak’ah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdur-Rahman bin Sa’d bin ‘Ammar bin Sa’d said:“My father told me, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to go out to the ‘Eid prayers walking, and he would come back walking.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to go out to the ‘Eid prayers walking, and come back walking.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“It is part of the Sunnah to walk to ‘Eid (prayers).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin ‘Ubaidullah bin Abu Rafi’, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to come to ‘Eid prayers walking (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that he used to go out to the ‘Eid prayers via one route, and return via another, and he said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin ‘Ubaidullah bin Abu Rafi’, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to come to ‘Eid prayers walking, and that he would go back via a different route than the one he began with (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that when the Prophet (ﷺ) went out to ‘Eid (prayers), he would return via another route than the first one he took (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amir said:“Iyad Al-Ash’ari was in Anbar at the time of ‘Eid, and he said: ‘Why is it that I do not see you engaged in Taqlis* as was done in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)?’” *Taqlis means to indulge in celebrations on a festive occasion (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“When the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed on the day of ‘Eid or on another occasion, a small spear was set up in front of him, and he prayed facing it, and the people were behind him.” Nafi` said: It is from here that the leaders have taken this practice (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed ‘Eid at the prayer place, using a small spear as a Sutrah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to bring his daughters and his wives out on the two ‘Eid (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“Two ‘Eid came together at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), so he led the people in prayer, then he said: ‘Whoever wishes to come to Friday (prayer), let him come, and whoever wishes to stay behind, let him stay behind.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“Rain fell on the day of ‘Eid at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), so he led them in prayer in the mosque (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade wearing weapons in the Muslim lands on the two ‘Eid, except if the enemy was present (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to have a bath on the day of Fitr and the day of Adha.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Yazid bin Khumair narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Busr went out with the people on the Day of Fitr or Adha, and he objected to the Imam’s delay. He said:“We would have finished by this time.” And that was the time of Tasbih (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to offer the night prayers two by two.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The night prayer is (to be offered) two by two.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the night prayer. He said: ‘Pray two by two, and if you fear that dawn is coming, then perform Witr with one Rak’ah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray the night prayer two Rak’ah by two Rak’ah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Prayers at night and during the day are to be offered two by two.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Hani’ bint Abu Talib that on the day of the Conquest (of Makkah) the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed voluntary Duha with eight Rak’ah, saying the Salam after each two Rak’ah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“After each two Rak’ah there should be the Taslim.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever fasts Ramadan and spends its nights in prayer, out of faith and in hope of reward, his previous sins will be forgiven.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah said:“Mention was made to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) of a man who slept until morning came. He said: ‘That is because Satan urinated in his ears.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Do not be like so-and-so, who used to pray voluntary night prayers then stopped praying voluntary night prayers.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The mother of Sulaiman bin Dawud said to Sulaiman: “O my son, do not sleep too much at night, for sleeping too much at night will leave a man poor on the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever prays a great deal at night, his face will be handsome during the day.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed and Abu Hurairah said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:‘When a man wakes up at night and wakes his wife, and they pray two Rak’ah, they will be recorded among the men and women who remember Allah much.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Among the people who recite the Qur’an with the most beautiful voices is the man who, when you hear him, you think that he fears Allah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Fadalah bin ‘Ubaid said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Allah listens more attentively to a man with a beautiful voice who recites Qur’an out loud than the master of a singing slave listens to his slave.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bara’ (bin ‘Azib) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Beautify the Qur’an with your voices.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“No one properly understands who reads the Qur’an in less than three days.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I did not know of the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) reciting the entire Qur’an until morning.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Hani’ bint Abi Talib said:“I used to hear the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting at night when I was on the roof of my house.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Laila said:“I prayed beside the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was praying voluntary prayers at night. He recited a Verse which mentioned punishment and said: ‘I seek refuge with Allah from the Fire, woe to the people of the Fire.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah said; “I asked Anas bin Malik about the recitation of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said:‘He used to elongate his voice.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray thirteen Rak’ah at night.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray nine Rak’ah at night (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amir Ash-Sha’bi said:“I asked ‘Abdullah bin ‘Abbas and ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar about the Prophet’s prayer at night. They said: ‘(He prayed) thirteen Rak’ah, including eight, and three for Witr, and two Rak’ah after the Fajr.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to sleep during the first part of the night and stay awake during the latter part.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Mas’ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever recites the last two Verses of Surat Al-Baqarah at night, that will be sufficient for him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘If anyone of you becomes drowsy, let him sleep until he feels refreshed, for he does not know, if he prays when he feels drowsy, he may want to say words seeking forgiveness but (instead) he ends up cursing himself.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you gets up to pray at night, and his tongue stumbles over the words of the Qur’an, and he does not know what he is saying, let him lie down.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever prays twenty Rak’ah between Maghrib and ‘Isha’, Allah will build for him a house in Paradise.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever prays six Rak’ah after the Maghrib and does not speak evil between them, they will be made equivalent to twelve years’ worship.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you has finished his prayer, let him give his house a share of that, for Allah will put something good in his house because of that prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Do not make your houses into graves.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Whoever prays Duha with twelve Rak’ah, Allah will build for him a palace of gold in Paradise.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu’adhah Al-‘Adawiyyah said:“I asked ‘Aishah: ‘Did the Prophet (ﷺ) pray Duha?’ She said: ‘Yes; four (Rak’ah) and he would add whatever Allah willed.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever regularly prays two Rak’ah of Duha, his sins will be forgiven even if they are like the foam of the sea.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-Ash’ari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah looks down on the night of the middle of Sha’ban and forgives all His creation, apart from the idolater and the Mushahin.” Another chain from Abu Musa, from the Prophet (ﷺ) with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Abu Awfa that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed two Rak’ah on the day when he was given the glad tidings of the head (death) of Abu Jahl (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) was given glad tidings that a need of his had been met, and he fell down prostrate (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdur-Rahman bin Ka’b bin Malik that his father said that when Allah accepted his repentance, he fell down prostrate (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that when the Prophet (ﷺ) heard news that made him happy, or for which one should be happy, he would fall down prostrate in gratitude to Allah, the Blessed and Exalted (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“Your Prophet (ﷺ) was enjoined to do fifty prayers but he returned to your Lord to make (i.e., reduce) them to five prayers.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“One prayer in this mosque of mine is better than a thousand prayers anywhere else, except The Sacred Mosque (Al-Masjid Al-Haram).” (Another chain) from Abu Hurairah from the Prophet (ﷺ) with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“One prayer in this mosque of mine is better than one thousand prayers in any other mosque except the Sacred Mosque.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“One prayer in my mosque is better than one thousand prayers elsewhere, except the Sacred Mosque, and one prayer in the Sacred Mosque is better than one hundred thousand prayers elsewhere.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“No one should prepare a mount (travel) to visit any mosque except three: the Sacred Mosque, this mosque of mine, and Aqsa Mosque.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed and ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr bin ‘As that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not prepare a mount (travel) to visit any mosque except three: the Sacred Mosque, Aqsa Mosque, and this mosque of mine.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abul-Abrad, the freed slave of Banu Khatmah, said that he heard Usaid bin Zuhair Ansari who was one of the Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) narrating that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“One prayer in the Quba’ Mosque is like ‘Umrah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
(Sahl) bin Hunaif said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever purifies himself in his house, then comes to the Quba’ Mosque and offers one prayer therein, will have a reward like that for ‘Umrah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Wa’il that ‘Abdullah said:“I prayed one night with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he kept standing until I thought of doing something bad.” I said: “What was that?”He said: “I thought of sitting down and leaving him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ziyad bin ‘Ilaqah that he heard Mughirah say:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood (in prayer) until his feet became swollen. It was said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, Allah has forgiven you your past and future sins.’ He said: ‘Should I not be a thankful slave?’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray until his feet became swollen. It was said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, Allah has forgiven you your past and future sins.’ He said: ‘Should I not be a thankful slave?’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked: ‘Which prayer is best?’ He said: ‘That with the longer Qunut.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubadah bin Samit that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“No one prostrates to Allah but Allah will record one Hasanah (good reward) for him, and will erase thereby one bad deed and raise him in status one degree. So prostrate a great deal.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Is anyone of you incapable, when he prays, of stepping forwards or backwards, or to his right or left?” meaning in order to offer a voluntary prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Mughirah bin Shu’bah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Imam should not pray in the place where he offered the obligatory prayer, until he moves aside.” Another chain from Mughirah, from the Prophet (ﷺ) with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Sa’ib said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying on the Day of the Conquest, and he put his shoes on his left.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came walking to visit me (when I was sick), as did Abu Bakr, when I was with Banu Salimah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) did not visit any sick person until after three days.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When you enter upon one who is sick, cheer him up and give him hope of a long life, for that does not change anything (of the Divine Decree), but it will cheer the heart of the one who is sick.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) entered upon a sick person to visit him. He said: ‘Do you long for anything? Do you long for Ka’k (a type of bread)?’ He said: ‘Yes.’ So they sent someone to bring some Ka’k for him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Umar bin Al-Khattab said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me: ‘When you enter upon one who is sick, tell him to pray for you, for his supplication is like the supplication of the angels.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Whoever visits a sick person, a caller calls from heaven: ‘May you be happy, may your walking be blessed, and may you occupy a dignified position in Paradise.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Urge your dying ones to say La ilaha illallah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Urge your dying ones to say: “La ilaha illallah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ma’qil bin Yasar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Recite Qur’an near your dying ones,” meaning Ya-Sin (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Muhammad bin Munkadir said:“I entered upon Jabir bin ‘Abdullah when he was dying, and I said: ‘Convey my Salam to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered upon her and there was a close relative of hers who was in the throes of death. When the Prophet (ﷺ) saw how upset she was, he said:“Do not grieve for your relative, for that is part of his Hasanat (merits).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Buraidah from his father that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The believer dies with sweat on his brow.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:“I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): ‘When does a person stop recognizing people?’ he said: ‘When he sees.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered upon Abu Salamah (after he had died), and his eyes were wide open. He closed his eyes, then he said: ‘When the soul is taken, the sight follows it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Shaddad bin Aws that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When you come to your dead ones, close their eyes, for the sight follows the soul. And say good things, for the Angels say Amin to what the members of the household say.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) kissed ‘Uthman bin Maz’un when he had died, and it is as if I can see him with his tears flowing down his cheeks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas and ‘Aishah that Abu Bakr kissed the Prophet (ﷺ) when he died (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me: ‘Do not show your thigh, and do not look at the thigh of anyone, living or dead.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Let the honest wash your dead.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ali that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever washes a deceased person, shrouds him, embalms him, carries him and offers the funeral prayer for him, and does not disclose what he has seen, he will emerge from his sins as on the day his mother bore him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever washes a dead person, let him take a bath.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“If I had known then what I know now, no one would have washed the Prophet (ﷺ) but his wives.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Buraidah that his father said:“When they started to wash the Prophet (ﷺ), a voice called out from inside (the house) saying: ‘Do not remove the shirt of the Messenger of Allah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ali that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When I die, then wash me with seven buckets from me well, the well of Ghars.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was shrouded in three thin white Suhuli cloths.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was shrouded in three garments: The shirt in which he died, and a Najrani Hullah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best of your garments are those which are white, so shroud your dead in them, and wear them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubadah bin Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best of shrouds is the Hullah (two-piecer).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If anyone of you is charged with taking care of his brother (after death), let him shroud him well.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“When Ibrahim the son of the Prophet (ﷺ) died, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to them: ‘Do not wrap him in his shroud until I look at him.’ He came to him, bent over and wept.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Hasten with the funeral (procession), for if the person was righteous then you are advancing him towards good, and if he was otherwise then it is evil which you are taking off of your necks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu ‘Ubaidah said:“ ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud said: ‘Whoever follows a funeral (procession), let him carry all (four) corners of it (in turn), for that is Sunnah. Then if he wishes let him voluntarily carry it, and if he wishes let him not do so.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw a funeral (procession) with which the people were rushing. He said:“You should move with tranquility.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Thawban, the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw some people riding on their animals in a funeral (procession). He said: ‘Do you not feel ashamed that the angels of Allah are walking on foot and you are riding?’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Al-Mughirah bin Shu’bah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘The rider should travel behind the funeral (procession) but the one who is walking may walk wherever he wants.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ), Abu Bakr and ‘Umar walking ahead of the funeral (procession).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthman used to walk ahead of the funeral (procession).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘The funeral should be followed and should not follow. There should be no one with it who walks ahead of it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ali bin Abu Talib that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not delay the funeral once it is ready.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hariz that Abu Burdah said:“Abu Musa Ash’ari left instructions, when he was dying, saying: ‘Do not follow me with a censer.’* They said to him: ‘Did you hear something concerning that?’ He said: ‘Yes, from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever has the funeral prayer offered for him by one hundred Muslims, he will be forgiven.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundab Al-Fazari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for a woman who had died in nifas* and he stood level with her middle (i.e. her waist).” *The postnatal bleeding period (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) recited the Opening of the Book (Al-Fatihah) in the funeral prayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Umm Sharik Al-Ansari said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to recite the Opening of the Book (Al-Fatihah) in the funeral prayer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘When you offer the prayer for the deceased, supplicate sincerely for him.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr and ‘Umar did not give us so much leeway in anything as they did with regard to the prayer for the deceased,” meaning that there was nothing affixed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Uthman bin ‘Affan that the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for ‘Uthman bin Maz’un, and he said four Takbir over him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said Takbir four times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Laila said:“Zaid bin Arqan used to say the Takbir four times in the funeral prayer, and he said the Takbir five times for one funeral. I asked him (about that) and he said: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do that.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Kathir bin ‘Abdullah, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the Takbir five times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Jubair bin Hayyah narrated that he heard Mughirah bin Shu’bah say:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘The (funeral) prayer should be offered for a child.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If a child utters a sound (after being born), the funeral prayer should be offered for him and (his relatives) may inherit from him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘Offer the (funeral) prayer for your children, for they have gone ahead of you (i.e. to prepare your place in Paradise for you).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“They (the martyrs) were brought to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the Day of Uhud, and he started to offer the funeral prayer for them, ten by ten. Hamzah lay where he lay, and they were taken away but he was left where he was.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that the weapons and armor should be removed from the slain of Uhud, and they should be buried in their clothes stained with blood (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aswad bin Qais that he heard Nubaih Al-‘Anazi say:“I heard Jabir bin ‘Abdullah say: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that the slain of the battle of Uhud should be returned to the battlefield; they had been moved to Al-Madinah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever offers the funeral prayer in the mosque will have nothing (i.e., no reward).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“By Allah! The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not offer the funeral prayer for Suhail bin Baida’ anywhere but in the mosque.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) placed a man in his grave at night, and he lit a lamp in his grave (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not bury your dead at night unless you are forced to.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Offer the funeral prayer for your dead by night or by day.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Wathilah bin Asqa’ that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Offer prayer for everyone who dies, and strive in Jihad under every chief.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer at a grave after the burial (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah from his father that the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for a deceased person after he had been buried (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Najashi has died.’ The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and his Companions went out to Al-Baqi’, and we lined up in rows behind him, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went forward, then he said four Takbir.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Imran bin Husain:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Your brother Najashi has died, so offer the funeral prayer for him.” Then he stood and we prayed behind him. I was in the second row and two rows prayed for him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mujammi’ bin Jariyah Al-Ansari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Your brother Najashi has died, so stand and pray for him.” So we formed two rows behind him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah bin Asid that the Prophet (ﷺ) led them out and said:“Pray for a brother of yours who has died in a land other than yours.” They said: “Who is he?” He said: “Najashi.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer for Najashi and said four Takbir (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever offers the funeral prayer will have one Qirat and whoever awaits until (the burial) is finished will have two Qirat.” They said: ‘What are these two Qirat?’ He said: ‘Like two mountains.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Thawban that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever offers the funeral prayer will have one Qirat and whoever attends the burial will have two Qirat.” The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the Qirat and he said: “(It is) like Uhud.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amir bin Rabi’ah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When you see a funeral (procession) stand up for it until it has passed by or it is placed on the ground.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“A funeral has passed by the Prophet (ﷺ) and he stood up and said: ‘Stand up out of recognition of the enormity of death.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali bin Abu Talib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up for a funeral, and we stood up, until he sat down, then we sat down.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara’ bin ‘Azib said:“We went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for a funeral, and he sat facing the Qiblah (prayer direction).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara’ bin ‘Azib said:“We went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for a funeral, and we came to a grave. He sat down and we sat down, as if there were birds on our heads.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Rafi’ said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) placed Sa’d gently in his grave and sprinkled water on it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was brought into his grave from the direction of the Qiblah, and he was placed in his grave gently (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The niche-grave is for us and the ditch-grave is for others.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir bin ‘Abdullah Al-Bajali said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The niche-grave is for us and the ditch-grave is for others.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sa’d said:“Make a niche-grave for me, and block it up with bricks as was done for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham bin ‘Amir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Dig the grave deep, make it spacious and prepare it well.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) marked the grave of ‘Uthman bin Maz’un with a rock (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade plastering over graves.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade writing anything on graves.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade building structures over graves (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offered the funeral prayer, then he came to the grave of the deceased and scattered three handfuls of earth from the side of (the deceased’s) head (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “If one of you were to sit on a live coal that burns him, that would be better for him than if he were to sit on a grave.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Visit the graves, for they will remind you of the Hereafter.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave permission for visiting the graves (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Mas’ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, “I used to forbid you to visit the graves, but now visit them, for they will draw your attention away from this world and remind you of the Hereafter.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdur-Rahman bin Hassan bin Thabit that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed women who visit graves.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed women who visit graves.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed women who visit graves.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm ‘Atiyyah said:“We were prevented from following the funeral, but that was not made binding on us.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah from the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding:“And that they will not disobey you in Ma’ruf (all that is good in Islam);” he said: “(It is about) wailing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Jarir, the freed slave of Mu’awiyah, said:“Mu’awiyah delivered a sermon in Hims, and in his sermon he mentioned that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade wailing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Malik Ash’ari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Wailing is one of the affairs of the Days of Ignorance, and if the woman who wails dies without having repented, Allah will cut a garment of pitch (tar) for her and a shirt of flaming fire.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade following a funeral that was accompanied by a wailing woman.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“He is not one of us who tears his garments, strikes his cheeks, and cries with the cry of the Days of Ignorance.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the woman who scratches her face and rends her garment and cries that she is doomed (i.e. because of the death of this person) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) was attending a funeral. ‘Umar saw a woman and shouted at her, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said, “Leave her alone, O ‘Umar, for the eye weeps and the heart is afflicted, and the bereavement is recent.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abi Awfa said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade eulogies.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Umar bin Khattab that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The deceased is punished for the wailing over him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“A Jewish woman had died, and the Prophet (ﷺ) heard the weeping for her. He said: ‘Her family is weeping for her, and she is being punished in her grave.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Patience should come with the first shock (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Allah says: ‘O son of Adam! If you are patient and seek reward at the moment of first shock, I will not approve of any reward for you less than Paradise.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever consoles a person stricken by calamity will have a reward equal to his.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“No man who loses three of his children will ever enter the Fire, except in fulfillment of the oath (of Allah).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Utbah bin ‘Abd Sulami said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘There is no Muslim, three of whose children die before reaching the age of puberty, but they will meet him at the eight gates of Paradise and whichever one he wants he will enter through it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There are no two Muslims (mother and father), three of whose children die before reaching the age of puberty, but Allah will admit them to Paradise by virtue of His mercy towards them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘A miscarried fetus sent before me is dearer to me than a horseman whom I leave behind.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu’adh bin Jabal that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“By the One in Whose Hand is my soul! The miscarried fetus will drag his mother by his umbilical cord to Paradise, if she (was patient and) sought reward (for her loss).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Ja’far said:“When news of the death of Ja’far was brought, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Prepare food for the family of Ja’far, for there has come to them that which is keeping them busy or something which is keeping them busy.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir bin ‘Abdullah Al-Bajali said:“We used to think that gathering with the family of the deceased and preparing food was a form of wailing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Dying in a strange land is martyrdom.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever dies from a sickness dies as a martyr. He is protected from the torment of the grave and he is granted provision from Paradise morning and evening.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Breaking the bones of the deceased is like breaking his bones when he is alive.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Breaking the bones of the deceased is, in sin, like breaking his bones when he is alive.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Aishah said:“I never saw anyone suffer more pain than the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he was dying, and there was a bowl of water next to him. He put his hand in the vessel and wiped his face with the water, and said: ‘O Allah, help me to bear the agonies of death.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say, during the illness that would be his last:“The prayer, and those whom your hands possess.”* And he kept on saying it until his tongue could no longer utter any words (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“On the day when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered Al-Madinah, everything was lit up, and on the day when he died, everything went dark, and no sooner had we dusted off our hands (after burying him) but we felt that our hearts had changed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“We used to be guarded in our speech even with our wives at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), fearing that Qur’an may be revealed amongst us, but when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) died, we began to speak freely.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ubayy bin Ka’b said:“We were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and we all had a single focus, but when he passed away we started to look here and there (i.e., have different interests).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Whoever fasts Ramadan out of faith and the hope of reward will be forgiven his previous sins.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“At every breaking of the fast Allah has people whom He frees (from the Fire), and that happens every night.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Silah bin Zufar said:“We were with ‘Ammar on the day concerning which there was some doubt. A (roasted) sheep was brought and some of the people moved away. ‘Ammar said: ‘Whoever is fasting on this day has disobeyed Abu Qasim (ﷺ).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade anticipating the fast by fasting one day before sighting (of the crescent).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to join Sha’ban to Ramadan.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rabi’ah bin Ghaz asked ‘Aishah about the fasting of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). She said:“He used to fast all of Sha’ban, until he joined it to Ramadan.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Do not anticipate Ramadan by fasting one or two days before, except for a man who has a habitual pattern of fasting, in which case let him fast.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘When it is the middle of Sha’ban, do not fast until Ramadan comes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘When you see the new crescent, fast, and when you see it, stop fasting. If it is cloudy then calculate it (as thirty days).” Ibn ‘Umar used to fast one day before the new crescent was seen (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When you see the new crescent then fast, and when you see it then stop fasting. If it is cloudy then fast thirty days.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin Sa’d bin Abu Waqqas that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The month is like that and like that and like that,’ and he showed nine fingers on the third time to indicate twenty-nine.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"(The months in which) We fasted twenty-nine days at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), were more than (the months in which) we fasted thirty days (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that from ‘Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakrah, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Two months of ‘Eid whose reward cannot be reduced (even if they are twenty-nine days): ‘Ramadan and Dhul-Hijjah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Al-Fitr is the day when you break your fast and Al-Adha is the day when you offer sacrifices.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fasted while he was traveling, and he broke his fast.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“Hamzah Al-Aslami asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): ‘I am fasting, should I fast while traveling?’ The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘If you wish, then fast, and if you wish, then break your fast.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ka’b bin ‘Asim that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘It is not an act of righteousness to fast while traveling.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"It is not an act of righteousness to fast while traveling (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdur-Rahman bin ‘Awf that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The one who fasts Ramadan while traveling is like one who breaks his fast when not traveling.” Abu Ishaq said: "This Hadith is of no significance (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) granted a concession to pregnant women who fear for themselves, allowing them not to fast, and to nursing mothers who fear for their infants.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Salamah said:“I heard ‘Aishah say: ‘I used to owe fasts from the month of Ramadan, and I would not make them up for until Sha’ban came.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“We used to menstruate at the time of the Prophet (ﷺ), and he would order us to make up for the (missed) fasts.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever does not fast one day in Ramadan without having a concession allowing that, fasting for a lifetime will not make up for that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever eats out of forgetfulness while fasting, let him complete his fast, for it is Allah Who has fed him and given him to drink (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Masruq said:“I heard Fadalah bin ‘Ubaid Al- Ansari narrating that the Prophet (ﷺ) came out to them on a day when he was fasting. He called for a vessel and drank. We said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, you were fasting today.’ He said: ‘Yes, but I vomited.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever unintentionally vomits, he does not have to make up for the fast, but whoever makes himself vomit, has to make up for the fast.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“One of the best actions of the fasting person is using the tooth stick.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) applied kohl to his eyes while he was fasting.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘The cupper and the one for whom cupping is done both break their fast.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Thawban said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: ‘The cupper and the one for whom cupping is done both break their fast.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had cupping done when he was fasting and in Ihram.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to kiss during the month of fasting.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to kiss when he was fasting, and who among you can control his desire as the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to control his desire?” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to kiss when he was fasting (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Maimunah the freed (female) slave of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about a man who kissed his wife when they were both fasting. He said: ‘They have broken their fast.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibrahim said:“Al-Aswad and Masruq entered upon ‘Aishah and said: ‘Did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) touch (his wife) when he was fasting?’ She said: ‘He used to do that, and he was the strongest of all of you in controlling his desire.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“A concession was granted to those who are older with regard to touching while fasting, but it was disliked on the part of those who are younger.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Whoever does not give up evil and ignorant speech, and acting in accordance with that, Allah has no need of his giving up his food and drink.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There are people who fast and get nothing from their fast except hunger, and there are those who pray and get nothing from their prayer but a sleepless night.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you is fasting, let him not utter evil or ignorant speech. If anyone speaks to him in an ignorant manner, let him say: ‘I am fasting.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Eat Suhur, for in Suhur there is a blessing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Seek help by eating Suhur for fasting that day, and by taking a brief rest (at midday) for praying at night.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that Zaid bin Thabit said:“We ate Suhur with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) then we got up to perform prayer.” I said: “How long was there between the two?” He said: “As long as it takes to recite fifty verses.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:“I ate Suhur with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when it was daybreak but the sun had not yet risen.” [(One of the narrators) Abu Ishaq said: “The Hadith of Hudhaifah is abrogated and does not mean anything.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sahl bin Sa’d that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The people will remain upon goodness as long as they hasten to break their fast.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The people will remain upon goodness so long as they hasten to break the fast. Hasten to break the fast, for the Jews delay it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Salman bin ‘Amr narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you breaks his fast, let him break it with dates. If he cannot find dates, then let him break it with water, for it is a means of purification (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"There is no fast for the one who did not make it incumbent upon himself from the night before (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr Al-Qari said:“I heard Abu hurairah say: ‘No, by the Lord of the Ka’bah! I did not say: “Whoever wakes up in a state of sexual impurity (and wants to fast) then he must not fast.” Muhammad (ﷺ) said it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Shikhkhir that his father said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever fasts continually, he neither fasts nor breaks his fast.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no fasting for one who fasts continually.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu’adhah Al-‘Adawiyyah that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to fast three days of each month.” I said: “Which were they?” She said: “He did not care which days they were.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Firas that he heard ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr say:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘(Prophet) Nuh fasted for a lifetime, except for the Day of Fitr and the Day of Adha.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Thawban, the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever fasts six days after the Fitr will have completed the year, for whoever does a good deed will have the reward of ten like it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ayyub that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever fasts Ramadan then follows it with six days of Shawwal, it is as if he fasted for a lifetime.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever fasts one day in the cause of Allah, Allah will keep the Fire away from his face the distance of seventy autumns (years) for that day.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever fasts one day for the sake of Allah, Allah will move his face away from the Fire a distance of seventy autumns (years).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The days of Mina (11th, 12th, and 13th of Dhul-Hijjah) are days of eating and drinking.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bishr bin Suhaim that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) delivered a sermon on the days of Tashriq (11th, 12th, and 13th of Dhul-Hijjah) and said: “No one will enter Paradise but a Muslim soul, and these days are the days of eating and drinking.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade fasting on the Day of Fitr and the Day of Adha (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade fasting on a Friday unless it (is joined to) the day before or the day after.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Muhammad bin ‘Abbad bin Ja’far said:“While I was circumambulating the House, I asked Jabir bin ‘Abdullah: ‘Did the Prophet (ﷺ) forbid fasting on a Friday?’ He said: ‘Yes, by the Lord of this House.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud said:“I rarely saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) not fasting on a Friday.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aswad that ‘Aishah said:“I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fasting the (first) ten days (of Dhul- Hijjah).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Fasting on the Day of ‘Arafah, I hope from Allah, expiates for the sins of the year before and the year after.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah bin Nu’man said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Whoever fasts the Day of ‘Arafah, his sins of the previous and following year will be forgiven.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ikrimah said:“I entered upon Abu Hurairah in his house and asked him about fasting the Day of ‘Arafah at ‘Arafat. Abu Hurairah said: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade fasting the Day of ‘Arafah at ‘Arafat.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to fast ‘Ashura’, and he ordered (others) to fast it too.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If I live until next year, I will fast the ninth day (of Muharram) too.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Fasting the day of ‘Ashura’, I hope, will expiate for the sins of the previous year.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Rabi’ah bin Ghaz that he asked ‘Aishah about the fasting of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). She said:“He used to make sure he fasted on Mondays and Thursdays.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: ‘Which fasting is better after the month of Ramadan?’ He said: ‘The month of Allah which is called Muharram.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade fasting Rajab (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin Ibrahim that Usamah bin Zaid used to fast the sacred months. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to him:“Fast Shawwal.” So he forsook the sacred months and he continued to fast Shawwal until he died (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“For everything there is Zakat and the Zakat of the body is fasting.” (A narrator in one of the chains) Muhriz added in his narration: "And the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Fasting is half of patience (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever gives food for a fasting person to break his fast, he will have a reward like theirs, without that detracting from their reward in the slightest.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If anyone of you is invited to eat when he is fasting, let him say: ‘I am fasting.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever is invited to eat when he is fasting, let him accept the invitation; and if he wants to let him eat, and if he wants let him not eat.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) would not go out on the Day of Fitr until he had eaten some dates.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) would not go out on the Day of Fitr until he had had given his Companions some of the charity of Fitr to eat.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah from his father, that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not go out on the Day of Fitr until he had eaten, and he would not eat on the Day of Nahr (the day of sacrifice) until he came back (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Whoever dies owing the fasts of a month, one poor person should be fed on his behalf for each day.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah that his father said:“A woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, my mother has died and she owed a fast. Should I fast on her behalf?’ He said: ‘Yes.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When her husband is present, no woman should fast any day apart from the month of Ramadan without his permission.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade women from fasting without the permission of their husbands.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If a man stays among a people, he should not fast without their permission.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“A grateful eater is equal to a patient fasting person.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sinan bin Sannah Al-Aslami, the Companion of the Prophet (ﷺ), that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A grateful eater will have a reward like that of a patient fasting person.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“We observed I’tikaf with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) during the middle ten days of Ramadan. He said: ‘I have been shown Lailatul-Qadr, then I was caused to forget it, so seek it in the last ten night, on the odd-numbered nights.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to strive hard (in worship) in the last ten nights of Ramadan as he never did at any other time.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“When the last ten days of Ramadan began, the Prophet (ﷺ) used to stay up at night, tighten his waist- wrap, and wake up his family (to pray).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ubayy bin Ka’b that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to spend the last ten days of Ramadan in I’tikaf. One year he was traveling, so the following year he spent twenty days in I’tikaf (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Umar that he had vowed during the days of Ignorance to spend one night in I’tikaf. He asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about it, so he commanded him to spend it in I’tikaf (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to spend the last ten days of Ramadan in I’tikaf. Nafi' said: " Abdullah bin 'Umar showed me the place where the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe I'tikaf (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that:When the Prophet (ﷺ) observed I’tikaf, his bedding would be spread for him, or his bed would be placed there for him, behind the Pillar of Repentance (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed I’tifak in a Turkish tent, over the door of which was a piece of reed matting. He pushed the mat aside, then he put his head out and spoke to the people (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The person observing I’tikaf may attend funerals and visit the sick.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to bring his head towards me when he was next door (observing I’tikaf), and I would wash it and comb his hair, when I was in my apartment and I was menstruating, and he was in the mosque.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Aishah said:“One of the wives of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed I’tikaf with him, and she used to see red and yellow discharge, and sometime she would put a basin beneath her.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said concerning the person observing I’tikaf. “He is refraining from sin and he will be given a reward like that of one who does all kinds of good deeds.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever spends the nights of the two ‘Eid in praying voluntary prayers, seeking reward from Allah, his heart will not die on the Day when hearts will die.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “When you pay Zakat on your wealth, then you have done what is required to you.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Fatima bint Qais narrated that:she heard him, meaning the Prophet say: “There is nothing due on wealth other then Zakat.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ali narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “I have exempted you from having to pay Zakat on horses and slaves, bring one quarter of one-tenth of every forty Dirhan: one Dirham.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn 'Umar and 'Aishah narrated that:that from every twenty Dinar or more. The Prophet used to take half a Dinar and from forty Dinar, one Dinar (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that :Aishah said: “I heard the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) say: 'There is not Zakat on wealth until Hawl (one year) has passed.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :he heard the Prophet say: ”There is no sadaqah on anything less than five Awsaq of dates, five Awaq of silver and five camels.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"There is no Sadaqah on less than five camels; there is no Sadaqah on less than five Awaq; and there is no Sadaqah on less than five Awsaq (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ali bin Abu Talib narrated that :Abbas asked the Prophet about paying his Sadaqah before it is due, and he granted him permission to do that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin Abu Awfa said:“Whenever a man brought Sadaqah to the Messenger of Allah, he would bless him. I brought him the Sadaqah of my wealth and he said: 'Allhumma, salli ala ali abi awfa(O Allah! Send blessing upon the family of Abu Awfa).' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: “When you give Zakat, do not forget its reward, and say 'Allahummaj-'alha maghnaman wa la taj-'alha maghrama (O Allah! Make it a gain and do not make it a loss).' ” (Maudu) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Jarir bin Abdullah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “The Zakat collector should not come back unless the people are pleased with him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Suwa Mu'adh bin Jabal said: “The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) send me to Yemen and commanded me; for every forty cows, to take a Musinnah and for every thirty, a Tabi or Tabi'ah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah narrated that:the Prophet said: “For every thirty cattle, Tabi or Tabi'ah and for every forty a Musinnah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “The Sadaqah of Muslims should be taken at their watering places.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “The one who is unjust in Sadaqah is like the one who withholds it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Rafi bin Khadij said: “I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The person who is appointed to collect the Sadaqah - who does so with sincerity and fairness is like one who foes out to fight for the sake of Allah, until he returns to the house.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Huraitah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “The Muslim is not obliged to pay Sadaqah on his slave not his horse.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ali narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “I have exempted you from having to pay Sadaqah on horses and slaves.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu'adh bin Jabal narrated that:the Messenger of Allah sent him to Yemen and said to him: “Take grains from grains, sheep from sheep, camels from camels and cows from cows” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Amr bin:Shu'aib, form his father, that his grandfather said: “The Messenger of Allah only prescribed Zakat on these five things: wheat, barley, dates, raisins and corn.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “For crops that are irrigated by the sky (i.e. rain) and springs, one-tenth. For those that are irrigated by watering, one half of one-tenth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Salim narrated that:that his Father said: “I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'For whatever is irrigated by the sky, rivers and springs, or draws up water from deep roots, one-tenth. For whatever is irrigated by animals (i.e. by artificial means) one half of one-tenth.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Mu'adh bin Jabal said: “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent me to Yemen and commanded me to take one-tenth of that which was irrigated by deep roots, and to take one half of one-tenth of that which was irrigated by means of buckets.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Attab bin Asid narrated that:the Prophet used to send to the people one who would assess their vineyards and fruits (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Abu Sayyarah Al-Muta said: “I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! I have bees.' He said: 'Give one-tenth.' I said: 'O Messenger of Allah!' Protect it for me.' And he protected it for me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr narrated that:the Prophet took one-tenth of honey (as Zakat) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:the Messenger of Allah enjoined Zakatul-Fitr, one Sa of dates or one Sa of barley.Abdullah said: The people made two Mudd (equal to half of a Sa) of wheat as its equivalent (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Umar said: “The Messenger of Allah enjoined Sadaqatul-Fitr, one Sa, of barley or one Sa of dates for every Muslim, free or slave, male or female.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Qais bin Sa'ad said: “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) enjoined Sadaqatul-Fitr upon is before (the command of) Zakat was revealed. He neither ordered us (to pay) nor forbade us (from paying it), so we did it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ammar bin Sa'eed, the Mu'adhdhin of the Messenger of Allah from his father,:that the Messenger of Allah enjoined Sadaqatul-Fitr, one Sa of dates, one Sa of barley, or one Sa of Sult (a kind of barley without skin on it, resembling wheat) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated and attributed to the Prophet:“A Wasq is sixty Sa.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Jabir bin Abdullah said: “The Messenger of Allah said: 'A Wasq is sixty Sa.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: “Whoever begs from people so as to accumulate more riches, he is asking for alive coal from hell, so let him ask for a lot or a little.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “Charity is not permissible for a rich person, or for one who is strong and healthy. ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Salman bin Amir Dabbi narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: “Charity given to the poor is charity, and that given to a relative is two things: charity and upholding the ties of kinship.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah said: “There is nothing like marriage, for two who love one another.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Sa'd said: “The Messenger of Allah disapproved of Uthman bin Maz'un's desire to remain celibate; if he had given him permission, we would have gotten ourselves castrated.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that:the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) forbade celibacy. Zaid bin Akhzam added: “And Qatadah recited: 'And indeed We sent Messengers before you (O Muhammad (ﷺ)), and made for them wives and offspring.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that from Musawir Al Himyari from his mother that:she heard Umm Salamah say: “I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Any woman who dies when her husband is pleased with her, will enter Paradise.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that from Abdullah bin Amr that :the Messenger of Allah said: “This world is but provisions, and there is no provision in this world better than a righteous wife.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Prophet said: “A woman may be married for four things: Her wealth, her lineage, her beauty or for her religion. Choose the religious, may your hands be rubbed with dust (i.e., may you prosper).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Anas bin Malik said: “I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Whoever wants to meet Allah pure and purified, let him marry free women.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah said: “Marry, for I will boast of your great numbers.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:Mughirah bin Shubah wanted to marry a woman. The Prophet (ﷺ) said to him: “Go and look at her, for that is more likely to create love between you.” So he did that, and married her, and mentioned how well he got along with her (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah said: “A man should not propose to a woman to whom his brother has already proposed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:the Messenger of Allah said: “A man should not propose to a woman to whom his brother has already proposed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah said: “A previously-married woman should not be married until she is consulted, and a virgin should not be married until her consent is sought, and her consent is her silence.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Adi bin Adi Al-Kindi that:his father said: “The Messenger of Allah said: 'A previously-married woman can speak for herself, and the consent of a virgin is her silence.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:a virgin girl came to the Prophet and told him that her father arranged a marriage that she did not like, and the Prophet gave her the choice (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Abdullah said: “The Prophet married Aishah when she was seven years old, and consummated the marriage with her when she was nine, and he passed away when she was eighteen.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Aisha and Ibn Abbas said: “The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no marriage except with a guardian.' ”According to the Hadith of Aishah: “And the ruler is the guardian of the one who does not have a guardian. ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that:the Messenger of Allah said: “There is no marriage except with a guardian.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah said: “No woman should arrange the marriage of another woman, and no woman should arrange her own marriage. The adulteress is the one who arranges her own marriage.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that:Abu Hurairah said: “The Messenger of Allah forbade Shighar.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:the Messenger of Allah said: “There is no Shighar in Islam.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Amir bin Rabiah from his father, that:A man among Banu Fazarah got married for a pair of sandals, and the Prophet permitted his marriage (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Saeed Al-Khudri that:the Prophet (ﷺ) married Aishah with the household goods the value of which was fifty Dirham (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah said: “Every important matter that does not start with praise of Allah, is devoid (of blessings).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:that the Prophet said: “Announce this marriage, and beat the sieve for it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin Hatib that the Messenger of Allah said:“What differentiates between the lawful and the unlawful is (beating) the Daff and raising the voices (in song) at the time of marriage.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik:that the Prophet passed by some part of Al-Madinah and saw some girls beating their Daff And singing, saying: “We are girls from Banu Najjar what an excellent neighbor is Muhammad.” The Prophet said: “Allah knows that you are dear to me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mujahid said:“I was with Ibn Umar, and he heard the sound of a drum, so he put his fingers in his ears and turned away. He did that three times, then he said: “This is what I saw the Messenger of Allah do.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah cursed women who imitate men and men who imitate women (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas:that the Prophet cursed men who imitate women and woman who imitate men (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:that the Prophet used to say, when offering congratulations of the occasion of marriage: “Barak Allahu lakum, wa barak 'alaikum, wa jama'a bainakuma fi khair (May Allah bless you and bestow blessings upon you, and bring you together in harmony).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I never saw the Messenger of Allah give a wedding feast for any of his wives like the feast he gave for Zainab, for which he slaughtered a sheep.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik:that the Prophet offered Sawiq and dates as a wedding feast for Safiyyah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sufyan (Ibn 'Uyainah) from `Ali bin Zaid bin Ju`dan from Anas bin Malik who said:“I attended a wedding feast for the Prophet in which there was no meat and no bread.” Ibn Majah said: It was not narrated except by Ibn `Uyainah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The worst of food is food of a wedding feast to which the rich are invited and the poor are not. Whoever does not accept an invitation has disobeyed Allah and His Messenger.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah said: “If anyone of you is invited to a wedding feast, let him accept.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah said: 'The wedding feast on the first day is an obligation, on the second day is a custom and on the third day is showing off.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas:that the Messenger of Allah said: “Three days for a previously-married woman and seven days for a virgin.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Utbah bin 'Abd Sulamain:that the Messenger of Allah said: “When anyone of you has intercourse with his wife, let him cover himself and not be naked liked donkeys.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from a freed slave of 'Aishah that 'Aishah said:“I never looked at or I never saw the private part of the Messenger of Allah.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:that the Prophet said: “Allah will not look at a man who has intercourse with his wife in her buttocks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Khuzaimah bin Thabit:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Allah is not too shy to tell the truth,” three times. “Do not have intercourse with women in their buttocks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Kudri said:“A man asked the Messenger of about coitus interruptus. He said: 'Do you do that? If you do not do so, it will not harm; for there is no soul that (SWT) has decreed will exist but it will come into being.' “ (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:'We used to practice coitus interruptus during the time of the Messenger of Allah when the Qur'an was being revealed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar bin Khattab said: “The Messenger of Allah forbade practicing coitus interruptus with a free woman except with her consent.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah: that the Prophet said: “A woman should not be married to a man who is married to her paternal aunt of maternal aunt (at the same time).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah forbid two types of marriage: For a man to be married to a woman and her paternal aunt (at the same time), and to a woman and her maternal aunt( at the same time).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Bakr bin Abu Musa narrated that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah said: “A man should not be married to a woman and her paternal aunt or maternal aunt at the same time.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar,:from the Prophet, concerning a man who had a wife then divorced her, then another man married her but divorced her before consummating the marriage. Could she go back to the first man? He said: “No, not until he tastes her sweetness.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah cursed the Muhallil and the Muhallal lahu.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:“The Massenger of Allah cursed the Muhallil and the Muhallal lahu.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Uqbah bin 'Amir narrated:that the Messenger of said: 'Shall I not tell you of a borrowed billy goat.” They said: “Yes, O Messenger of!” He said: “He is Muhallil. May curse the Muhallil and the Muhallal lahu.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:that the Messenger of Allah said: 'Breast-feeding makes unlawful (for marriages) the same things that blood tie make unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Fadl said:that the Messenger of Allah said: “Breastfeeding once or twice, or suckling once or twice, does not make (marriage) unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:that the Prophet Allah said: “Suckling once or twice does not make (marriage) unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:“Once of the things that Allah revealed in the the Qur'an and then abrogated was that nothing makes marriage prohibited except ten breastfeedings or five well-known (breastfeedings).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Zubair:that the Messenger of Allah said: “There is no breastfeeding except that which fills the stomach.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Dailami said:“I came to the Messenger of Allah, and I was married to two sisters whom I had married during the Ignorance period. He said: 'When you go back, divorce one of them.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Dahhak bin Fairuz Dailami narrated that his father said:'I came to the Prophet and said: 'O Messenger of Allah! I have become Muslim and I am married to two sisters.' The Messenger of Allah said: 'Divorce whichever of them you want.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qais bin Harith said:“I became Muslim and I had eight wives. I went to the Prophet and told him about that. He said: 'Choose four of them.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:“Ghailan bin Salamah became Muslim and he had ten wives. The Prophet said to him: 'Choose four of them.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir:that the Prophet said: “The conditions most deserving to be fulfilled are those by means of which the private parts become permissible for you.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) set Safiyyah free, and made her ransom her dowry, and he married her (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah said : "If a slave gets married without his master's permission, he is a fornicator (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah said : "Any slave who gets married without his master's permission, is a fornicator (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali bin Abu Talib that:The Messenger of Allah forbade on the Day of Khaibar, the temporary marriage of women and (he forbade) the flesh of domestic donkeys (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Maimunah bint Harith narrated:that the Messenger of Allah married her when he was Halal (not in Ihram). (Sahih).He (one of the narrators-Yazid) said: "And she was my maternal aunt and the maternal aunt of Idn 'Abbas also (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet got married while he was a Muhrim (in Ihram) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aban bin 'Uthman bin 'Affan' that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The one in lhram should not get married, nor arrange a marriage for anyone else, nor Propose marriage (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:that the Messenger of Allah said: "Choose the best for your sperm, and marry compatible women and propose marriage to them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever has two wives and favors one of them over the other, he will come on the Day of Resurrection with one of his sides leaning (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:that whenever the Messenger of Allah was to travel, he would cast lots among his wives (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Urwah narrated from 'Aishah:that when Saudah bint Zam'ah grew old, she gave her day to 'Aishah, and the Messenger of Allah went to 'Aishah on Saudah's day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ruhm said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'One of the best kinds of intercession is interceding between two people concerning marriage (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:the Prophet said: "The best of you is the one who is best to his wife, and I am the best of you to my wives (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that:the Messenger of Allah said: "The best of you are those who are best to their womenfolk (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet raced with me and I beat him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to play with dolls when I was with the Messenger of Allah, and he used to bring my friends to me to play with me (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abduleh bin Zam'ah said:'The Prophet delivered a sermon then he made mention of women, and exhorted (the men) concerning them. Then he said: 'How long will one of you whip his wife like a slave, then lie with her at the end of the day? (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah never beat any of his servants, or wives, and his hand never hit anything (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Prophet cursed the woman who does hair extensions and the one who has that done, and the woman who does tattoos and the one who has that done (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet, married me in Shawwal, and he consummated the marriage with me in Shawwal, and which of his wives was more favored to him than I." 'Airhuh used to like marriage to be consummated with her female relatives in Shawwal (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdul-Malik bin Harith bin Hisham, from his father, that:the Prophet married Umm Salamah in Shawwal, and consummated the marriage with her in Shawwal (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:the Messenger of Allah told her to take a woman to her husband before he had given her anything (i.e. bridal-money). (Da' if) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hakim bin Mu'awiyah that his paternal uncle Mikhmar bin Mu'awiyah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Do not believe in omens, and good fortune is only to be found in three things: A woman, a horse and a house (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sahl bin Sa'd that:the Messenger of Allah said: "If it exists, it is in three things: a horse, and woman and a house," meaning omens (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I never felt as jealous of any woman as I did of Khadijah, because I saw how the Messenger of Allah remembered her, and his Lord had told him to give her the glad tidings of a house in Paradise made of Qasab (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah ruled that the child belonged to the bed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Prophet said: "The child is for the bed (i.e., belongs to the husband) and the fornicator gets nothing (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Shurahbil bin Muslim said:"I heard Abu Um Amah Al-Bahili say: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah say: "The child is for the bed and the fornicator gets nothing (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah returned his daughter to Abul-'As bin Rabi' after two years, on the basis of the first marriage contract (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grand father, that:the Messenger of Allah, returned his daughter Zainab to Abul-As bin Rabi', with a new marriage contract (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'adh bin Jabal that:the Messenger of Allah said: "No woman annoys her husband but his wife among houris (of Paradise) safs: 'Do not annoy him, may Allah destroy you, for he is just a temporary guest with you and soon he will leave you and join us (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Prophet, said: "What is Haram does not make what is Halal into what is Haram.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar bin Khattab that:the Messenger of Allah divorced Hafsah then took her back (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that:the Messenger of Allah said: What is wrong with people who play with the limits imposed by Allah, and one of them says: "I divorce you, I take you back, I divorce you? (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah said: "The most hated of permissible things to Allah is divorce (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"Divorce according to the Sunnah means divorcing her when she is pure, ( i.e., not menstruating) and without having had intercourse with her (during that cycle) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Divorce according to the Sunnah means divorcing her with one divorce in each cycle when she is pure, then when she becomes pure the third time, then he pronounces divorce again, and after that she must wait one more menstrual cycle (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:he divorced his wife when she was menstruating, and 'Umar mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ). He said: "Tell him to take her back then divorce her when she is pure (not menstruating) or pregnant (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amir Sha'bi said:"I said to Fatimah bint Qais: 'Tell me about your divorce.' She said: 'My husband divorced me three times when he was leaving for Yemen, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) allowed that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Miswar bin Makhramah that:the Prophet (ﷺ) told Subai'ah to get married, when her postnatal bleeding ended (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:“Fatimah bint Qais said: 'O Messenger of Allah, (ﷺ) I am afraid that someone may enter upon me by force.' So he told her to move (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakr bin Abu Jahm bin Sukhair Al-'Adawi said:"I heard Fatimah bint Qais say that her husband divorced her ttree times, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not say that she was entitled to accommodation and maintenance (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sha'bi said:Fatimah bint Qais said: “My husband divorced me at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) three times. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'You have no right to accommodation or to maintenance.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "There are three matters in which seriousness is serious and joking is serious: marriage, divorce and taking back (one's wife) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Allah has forgiven my nation for what they think of to themselves, so long as they do not act upon it or speak of it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali bin Abu Talib that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Pen is lifted from the minor, the insane person and the sleeper (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr Al-Ghifari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Allah has forgiven for me my nation their mistakes and forgetfulness, and what they are forced to do (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the:Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said : "Allah has forgiven my nation for the evil suggestions of their hearts, so long as they do not act upon it or speak of it, and for what they are forced to do (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said :"Allah has forgiven my nation for mistakes and forgetfulness, and what they are forced to do (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Safiyyah bint Shaibah said:"Aishah told me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'There is no divorce and no manumission at the time of coercion (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from "Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that:the Messenger of Allah said : "There is no divorce regarding that which one does not possess (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Miswar bin Makharamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"There is no divorce before marriage, and no manumission before taking possession (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ' Ali bin Abu Talib that the Prophet (ﷺ) said :"There is no divorce before marriage (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah gave us the choice, and we chose him, and he did not consider it as something (i.e., an effective divorce) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"No woman asks for divorce when it is not absolutely necessary, but she will never smell the fragrance of paradise, although its fragrance can be detected from a distance of forty years' travel (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Thawban that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'Any woman who asks her husband for a divorce when it is not absolutely necessary, the fragrance of Paradise will be forbidden to her (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) swore to keep away from his wives, because Zainab had sent back her gift and 'Aishah said: "She has disgraced you." He became angry and swore to keep away from them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Sakhr Al-Bayedi that:the Prophet (ﷺ) said concerning a man who declared Zihar upon his wife having intercourse with her before compensation: "Let him offer one expiation (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:a man invoked curses on his wife, and refused to accept her child. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) separated them, and left the child with the woman (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah swore to keep away from his wives and declared them as unlawful for him, so he made something permissible forbidden, and he offered expiation for having sworn to do so (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Jubair that Ibn 'Abbas said:"For the one who makes unlawful is the swearing." (Sahih)And Ibn 'Abbas used to say: "You had the best example in the Messenger of Allah." (33:) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:she freed Barirah and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave her the choice, and she (Barirah) had a free husband (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Barirah was told to observe the waiting period for three menstrual cycles (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave Barirah the choice (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Urnar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said:"The divorce of a slave woman is twice, and her waiting period is two menstrual cycles (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin 'As said:"Do not corrupt the Sunnah of our Prophet Muhammad (ﷺ). The waiting period of an Umm Walad is four months and ten (days) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "It is not permissible for a woman to mourn for any deceased person for more than three days, except for her husband (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said: "It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for any deceased person for more than three days, except for her husband (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"I had a wife whom I loved, but my father hated her. 'Umar mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he ordered me to divorce her, so I divorced her (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rifa'ah Al - Juhani said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) took an oath he would say: 'By the One in Whose Hand is the soul of Muhammad (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rifa'ah bin 'Arabah A-Juhani said:"The swearing of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he took an oath and I bear witness before Allah was: 'By the One in Whose Hand is my soul (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"The swearing most frequently sworn by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was: 'No, by the Controller of the hearts (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The swearing of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was: 'No, and I ask Allah for forgiveness (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Do not take oaths by idols nor by your forefathers (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever takes an oath, and swears, saying: 'By Al-Lat and Al-Uzza,' let him say:'La ilaha illallah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever takes an oath to follow a religion other than Islam, telling a deliberate lie, he will be as he said (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) heard a man say:"If that happens, I will be a Jew." The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'That is guaranteed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Buraidah that his father told that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever says: 'I have nothing to do with Islam,' if he is lying then he is as he said, and if he is telling the truth, his Islam will not be sound (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Eisa bin Maryam saw a man stealing and said: 'Did you steal?' He said: 'No, by the One besides Whom there is no other God.' 'Eisa said: 'I believe in Allah, and I do not believe what my eyes see (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "An oath (leads to) either sin or regret (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'Whoever swears an oath and says In sha' Allah, he will have made an exception (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever swears an oath and says In sha' Allah, if he wishes he may go ahead and if he wishes he may not, without having broken his oath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar:"Whoever swears an oath and says In sha' Allah, will never break his oath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Adi bin Hatim that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said: "Whoever swears an oath then sees that something else is better than it, let him do that which is better and offer expiation for what he swore about (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abul-Ahwas 'Awf bin Malik Al- Jushami that his father said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, my cousin comes to me and I swear that I will not give him anything or uphold the ties of kinship with him.' He said: 'Offer expiation for what you swore about (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever takes an oath to cut off the ties of kinship, or to do something that is not right, the fulfillment of his vow is not to do that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever swears an oath then sees that something else is better than it, let him not do it, and his leaving it is the expiation for it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offered expiation of a Sa' of dates, and he enjoined the people to do likewise. Whoever does not have that (must give) half a Sa' of wheat (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"A man would give his family food that was abundant and another would give his family food that was barely sufficient, then the following was revealed: 'With the Awsat of that with which you feed your families...’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara' bin 'Azib said:'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to help fulfill the oath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'When anyone of you swears an oath, let him not say: 'What Allah wills and what you will.' Rather let him say: 'What Allah wills and then what you will (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The oath is only according to the intention of the one who requests the oath to be taken (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Your oath is as your companion understands it to be (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade vows and said: 'They are just a means of taking wealth from the miserly (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"[There is no vow to commit disobedience and] no vow concerning that which the son of Adam does not possess (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"There is no vow to commit disobedience, and the expiation (for such a vow) is the expiation for breaking an oath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever vows to obey Allah, let him obey Him, and whoever vows to disobey Allah, let him not disobey Him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amit Al-Juhani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever makes a vow and does not state it specifically, the expiation (for such a vow) is the expiation for breaking an oath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar bin Khattab said:"I made a vow during the Ignorance period and I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) (about it) after I became Muslim. He told me to fulfill my vow (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that a man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said:"O Messenger of Allah, I vowed to offer a sacrifice at Buwanah." He said: "Do you intend any action of Ignorance period?" He said: "No." He said: "Then fulfill your vow (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas' that :Sa'd bin 'Ubadah asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about a vow which his mother had made, but she had died without fulfilling it. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullsh that :a woman came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said: "My mother has died, and she had made a vow to fast, but she died before she could fulfill it. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Let her guardian fast on her behalf (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) saw an old man walking between his two sons, and he said: What is the matter with him?' His sons said: 'A vow, O Messenger of Allah.' He said: 'Let this old man ride, for Allah has no need of you or your vow (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'The best (most pure) food a man consumes is that which he has earned himself, and his child (and his child's wealth) is part of his earnings (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Miqdam bin Ma'dikarib (Ar- Zubaidi) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"No man earns anything better than that which he earns with his own hands, and what a man spends on himself, his wife, his child and his servant, then it is charity (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'The trustworthy, honest Muslim merchant will be with the martyrs on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:'The one who strives to support the widow and the poor is like a Mujahid who fights in the cause of Allah, and like one who stands in the night (in voluntary prayer) and fasts by day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Humaid As-Sa'idi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Be moderate in seeking worldly things, for everyone will be facilitated for which he was created (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The one who has the most concerns is the believer who is concerned about both his worldly affairs and his Hereafter."' (Da'if)Abu 'Abdullah said: "This Hadith is Gharib' Isma'il, alone, has narrated it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'Whoever achieves at something, let him stick with It (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Zakariyya was a carpenter (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The image-makers will be punished on the Day of Resurrection and will be told: 'Give life to that which you have created (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The most dishonest of people are the dyers and the goldsmiths (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar bin Khattab that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The importer is blessed with provision and the hoarder is cursed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ma'mar bin 'Abdullah bin Nadlah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"No one hoards but a sinner (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar bin Khattab said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Whoever hoards food (and keeps it from) the Muslims, Allah will afflict him with leprosy and bankruptcy (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ubayy bin Ka'b said:"I taught a man the Qur'an, and he gave me a bow. I mentioned that to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he said: 'If you accept it you will be accepting a bow of fire.' So I returned it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Mas'ud that :the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the price of a dog, the payment (given to a prostitute) and the payment made to a soothsayer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the price of a dog and studding a stallion (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
lt was narrated from Abu Az-Zubair that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the price of a cat (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :the Prophet (ﷺ) was treated with cupping and he gave him (the cupper) his wages. (Sahih)Ibn Abu 'Umar was alone in narrating it. That was said by Ibn Majah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was treated with cupping and he told me to give the cupper his wages (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:the Prophet (ﷺ) was treated with cupping and gave the cupper his wages (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Mas'ud, 'Uqbah bin 'Amr, said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), forbade the earnings of a cupper (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Haram bin Munayyisah that :his father asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about the earnings of a cupper and he forbade him from that. Then he mentioned his need and he said: "Spend it on feeding your she-camels that draw water (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah said:"The Messenger of Allah, forbade selling or buying singing girls, and their wages, and consuming their price (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of transactions: Mulimasah and Mundbadhah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Let one of you not undersell another (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
lt was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"A man is not to undersell his brother, nor is he to fry to outhaggle his brother (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the Najsh (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Do not practice Najsh (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"A City-dweller should not sell for a Bedouin (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"A city-dweller should not sell for a Bedouin. Leave people to (engage in trade) and Allah will grant them provision through one another (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn Tawus narrated from his father that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade a city-dweller to sell for a Bedouin." (Sahih)I (Tawus) said to Ibn 'Abbas: "What is meant by the words: 'A city-dweller selling for a Bedouin?' He said: "He should not be a broker for him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Do not meet the traders on the way, and whoever meets any of them and buys from him, the vendor has the choice of annulling the transaction when he comes to the marketplace (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade meeting traders on the way (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade. meeting the owners of goods (away from the market) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Barzah Al-Aslami that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:”The two parties to a transaction have the choice (of annulling it) so long as they have not yet parted (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The two parties to a transaction have the choice (of annulling it) so long as they have not yet parted (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Dawud bin Salih Al Madani that his father said:I heard Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri say: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Transactions may only be done by mutual consent (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hakim bin Hizam said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, a man is asking me to sell him something that I do not possess; Shall I sell it to him?' He said: 'Do not sell what is not with you (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'It is not permissible to sell something that is not with you, nor to profit from what you do not possess (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ata that 'Attab bin Asid said that :when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent him to Makkah, he forbade him from profiting off of what he did not possess (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir or Samurah bin Jundab that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Any man who sells to two men, it is for the one who was first (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said:"If two (separate) authorized persons make a sale (of the same thing), then the first transaction is the one that is valid (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather that :the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade the deal involving earnest money (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade Gharar transaction sand Hasah transactions (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade Gharar transactions (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade selling Hablul-Habalah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Whoever agrees with a Muslim to cancel a transaction Allah will forgive his sins on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Uthman bin 'Affan narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah will admit to Paradise a man who was lenient when he sold and when he bought (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"May Allah have mercy on a person who is lenient when he sells, lenient when he buys, and lenient when he asks for payment (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade haggling before sunrise, and (he forbade) slaughtering animals that yield milk (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said:"Beware of swearing oaths when selling, for it may help you to make a sale but it destroys the blessing (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever buys a palm tree that has been pollinated, its fruits belong to the seller, unless the purchaser stipulated a condition." (Sahih) Another chain from Ibn 'Umar, from the Prophet (ﷺ), with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi' from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever sells a palm tree and sells a slave." Mentioning both of them together (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubadah bin Samit said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled that the fruit of a palm tree belongs to the one who pollinated it, and that the wealth of a slave belongs to the one who sold him, unless the purchaser stipulated a condition (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Do not sell fruits until they have ripened." And he forbade (both) the seller and the purchaser (to engage in such a transaction) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Do not sell fruits until they have ripened (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that :the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade selling fruits until they have ripened (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling fruits until they have changed the color, and selling grapes until they have turned black, and selling grains until they have hardened (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling for many years ahead (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever sells fruits then the crop fails, should not take any of his brother's money. Why would any of you take the money of his Muslim brother? (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Simak bin Harb said:"I heard Malik Abu Safwan bin 'Umairah, say: 'I bought a pair of trousers from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) before the Hijrah, and he weighed it for me and allowed more (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When you weigh, allow more (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed by a man who was selling food. He put his hand in it and saw that there was something wrong with it. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, 'He is not one of us who cheats (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hamra' said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pass by a man having food in a vessel. He put his hand in it and said: 'Perhaps you are cheating. Whoever cheats us is not one of us (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever buys food, let him not sell it until he has taken full possession of it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever buys food, let him not sell it until he has taken full possession of it.'" (Sahih) In his narration, (one of the narrators) Abu 'Awanah said: "Ibn 'Abbas said: 'I think everything is like food (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling food bought by measure until two Sa' have been measured - the Sa' of the seller and the Sa' of the buyer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"We used to buy food from troops of riders (i.e., the caravans) without knowing the amount, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade us to sell it until it had been delivered to us (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin Busr Al-Mazini said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Measure your food, may you be blessed therein (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ayyub that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Measure your food, may you be blessed therein (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"O Allah, bless my nation early in the morning of Thursday (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"O Allah, bless my nation early in the morning (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever buys a Muhaffalah, (1) he has the choice (of annulling the deal) for three days. If he returns it, then he must also give wheat equal to twice, the amount of its milk, or equal to the amount of its milk (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"I bear witness that the true and truly inspired one Abul-Qasim (ﷺ) told us: 'Selling a Muhaffalah is Khilabah, and Khilabah is not lawful for the Muslim."' (Ibn Majah said: " Meaning: 'Deception) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled that what a slave earns belongs to his guarantor (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:a man bought a slave and put him to work, then he found some defect in him, so he returned him. He (the seller) said: "O Messenger of Allah he put my slave to work." The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A slave's earnings belong to his guarantor (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundab that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The contractual obligation regarding a slave lasts for three days (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"There is no contractual obligation after four (days) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uqbah bin 'Amir said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'The Muslim is the brother of another Muslim, and it is not permissible for a Muslim to sell his brother goods in which there is a defect, without pointing that out to him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Wathilah bin Asqa' said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Whoever sells defective goods without pointing it out, he will remain subject to the wrath of Allah, and the angels will continue to curse him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"When captives were brought to him, the Prophet (ﷺ) would give the members of one family together (to one person), not wanting to separate them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave me two slaves who were brothers, and I sold one of them. He said: 'What happened with the two slaves?' I said: 'I sold one of them.' He said: 'Take him back (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the one who separates a mother and her child, or a brother from his brother (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:'(Sell) silver for silver, gold for gold, barley for barley, wheat for wheat, like for like (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Alqamah bin 'Abdullah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade breaking the coins of the Muslims that are in circulation among them, without any necessary reason.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
lt was narrated from Sabir bin 'Abdullah that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the Muhaqalah and the Muzabanah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi, bin Khadij said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the Muhaqalah and the Muzabanah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim from his father:"Zaid bin Thabit narrated to me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave a concession regarding the sale of 'Araya.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundub that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling animals for animals on credit (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"There is nothing wrong with selling animals, one for two, hand to hand," but he disliked selling them on credit (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that :the Prophet (ﷺ) bought Safiyyah for seven slaves. (Sahih) (One of the narrators) 'Abdur-Rahman said: "From Dihyah Kalbi (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"There are seventy degrees of usury, the least of which is equivalent to a man having intercourse with his mother (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"There are seventy-three degrees of usury (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar bin Khattab said:"The last thing to be revealed was the Verse on usury but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) died before he had explained it to us. So give up usury (interest) and doubtful things (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud that :Xthe Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the one who consumes usury, the one who pays it, those who witness it and the one who writes it down (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There will come a time when there will be no one left who does not consume usury (interest), and whoever does not consume it will nevertheless be affected by it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Mas'ud that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"There is no one who deals in usury a great deal (to increase his wealth) but he will end up with little (i.e., his wealth will be decreased) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) came (to Al-Madinah), they used to pay in advance for dates, two or three years in advance. He said: 'Whoever pays in advance for dates, let him pay for a known amount or a known weight, to be delivered at a known time.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When you have paid in advance for something, do not exchange it for something else." (Da'if)Another chain with similar wording (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'ib said to the Prophet (ﷺ):"You were my partner during the Ignorance period and you were the best of partners, you did not contend or dispute (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Sa'd, 'Ammar and I entered into a partnership on the day of Badr, (agreeing to share) whatever was allotted to us. 'Ammar and I did not get anything, but Sa'd got two men (slaves) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
lt was narrated from Salih bin Suhaib that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'There are three things in which there is blessing: A sale with deferred payment; Muqaradhah (profit sharing); and mixing wheat with barley for one's house, but not for sale (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The best of your provision is what you earn, and your children are part of what you earn (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that a man said:"O Messenger of Allah, I have wealth and a son, and my father wants to take all my wealth." He said: "You and your wealth belong to your father (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muslim Al-Mula'i that he heard Anas bin Malik say:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to accept the invitation of a slave (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When anyone of you passes by a garden let him eat therefrom, but he should not carry any away in his garment (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Hani' that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to her:"Keep sheep, for in them is blessing (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Urwah Al-Bariqi said in a Marfu’ report:"Camels are the pride of their owners, and sheep are a blessing, and goodness is tied to the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Sheep are among the animals of Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded the rich to keep sheep, and he commanded the poor to keep chickens, and he said: 'When the rich keep chickens, then Allah will give permission for the town to be destroyed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever is appointed judge between the people, he has been slaughtered without a knife.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Abu Awfa that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah is with the judge so long as he is not unjust, but if he rules unjustly, He entrusts him to himself.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The curse of Allah is upon the one who offers a bribe and the one who takes it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdul-Malik bin 'Umair that he heard 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakrah (narrate) from his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Let the judge (Qadi) not pass a judgment when he is angry.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I am only human, and some of you may be more eloquent in presenting your case than others. If I pass a judgement in his favor that detracts from his brother's rights, I am giving him a piece of fire.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“Whoever claims something that does not belong to him; he is not one of us, so let him take his place in Hell.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever takes the wrongdoer's side in a dispute or supports wrongdoing, he will remain subject to the wrath of Allah until he gives it up.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If the people were given what they claimed, some would have claimed the lives and property of men. But the one the claim is made against is obliged to swear an oath.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever swears a false oath in order to seize the wealth of a Muslim unlawfully, he will meet Allah when He is angry with him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'Whoever swears a false oath near this pulpit of mine, let him take his place in Hell, even if it is for a green twig.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Muhammad bin Yahya, who is Abu Yunus Al-Qawi, said:I heard Abu Salamah say: I heard Abu Hurairah say: “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'No man or woman swears a false oath beside this pulpit, even if it is for a fresh twig, but he will be doomed to Hell.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bara' bin 'Azib that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) called one of the Jewish scholars and said:“ Swear by the One Who sent the Torah (Tawrah) down to Musa.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to two Jews:“Swear by Allah Who sent the Tawrah down to Musa, peace be upon him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:he said that two men laid claim to an animal, and neither of them had any proof, so the Prophet (ﷺ) commanded them to cast lots as to which of them should swear an oath (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that :two men referred a dispute to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) concerning an animal, and neither of them had proof, so he ruled that it should be divided in half (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“No one of you should refuse to let his neighbor fix a piece of wood to his wall.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Make the path seven forearms length wide.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When you dispute concerning a path, make it seven forearms length wide.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubadah bin Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled:“There should be neither harming nor reciprocating harm.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There should be neither harming nor reciprocating harm.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sirmah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever harms others, Allah (SWT) will harm him; and whoever causes hardship to other Allah will cause hardship to him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ('Uqbah bin 'Amir or) Samurah bin Jundub that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “If a product is sold to two men, it is for the one who was first.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that :a man had six slaves, and he did not have any other wealth apart from them, and he set them free when he died. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) divided them into groups, set two free and left four as slaves (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :two men disputed concerning a transaction, and neither of them had proof. The Messenger of Allah commanded them to draw lots as to which of them should swear an oath, whether they liked it or not (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that :when the Prophet (ﷺ) traveled, he would cast lots among his wives (to decide which one would accompany him) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Prophet (ﷺ) gave a child the choice between his father and his mother (i.e., which parent to live with). He said: “O boy, this is your mother and this is your father.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Kathir bin 'Abdullah bin 'Amr bin 'Awf narrated from his father that his grandfather said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Reconciling between Muslims is permissible, except reconciliation that forbids something that is allowed, or allows something that is forbidden.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever finds his exact property with a man who has become bankrupt, and then he has more right to it than anyone else.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Any man who sells a product with the man who has become bankrupt, and he has not taken any of its price, it belongs to him, but if he had taken any of its price, then he is like any other creditor.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Any man who dies and has the property of another man, whether he paid something towards it or not, (the owner of those goods) is like any other creditor.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani said that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“The best of witnesses is the one who gives his testimony before he is asked for it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that :Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri recited this Verse: “O you who believe! When you contract a debt for a fixed period...” until: “then if one of you entrusts the other.” Then he said: “This abrogates what came before.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shuaib from his father that his grandfather said:“The Testimony of a man or woman who is treacherous, or of one who has been subjected to one of the Haad punishments of Islam, or of one who bears a grudge against his brother, is not permissible.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“The testimony of a Bedouin against a town-dweller is not permissible.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed judgment on the basis of an oath (from the claimant) along with a (single) witness. [This is in the absence of two witnesses] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet (ﷺ) passed judgement on the basis of an oath (from the claimant) along with a (single) witness (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed judgement on the basis of a witness along with an oath by the claimant (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Surraq that :the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed the testimony of a man along with the oath of the claimant (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'The one who bears false witness will not move away (on the Day of Resurrection) until Allah condemns him to Hell.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) allowed the People of the Book to testify against one another (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nu'man bin Bashir that:his father gave him a gift of a slave, and he came to the Prophet (ﷺ) so that he could witness the gift. He said: “Have you given something to all of your children?” He said: “No.” He said: “Then take back (your gift).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas and Ibn 'Umar, who attributed the Hadith to the Prophet (ﷺ) that he said:“It is not permissible for a man to give a gift then take it back, except what a father gives to his child.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from, his Grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) of Allah (SWT) said:“None of you should take back his gift, except a father (taking it back) from his son.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no lifelong grant. Whoever is given something as a lifelong grant, it is his.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that :the Prophet (ﷺ) ruled that a gift given for life belongs to the heirs (of the recipient) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no Ruqba. Whoever is given a gift on the basis of Ruqba, it belongs to him, whether he lives or dies.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Umra belongs to the one to whom it is given, and Ruqba belongs to the one to whom it is given.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The likeness of one who takes back his gift is that of a dog that eats until it is full and vomits; then it goes back to its vomit and eats it again.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The one who takes back his gift is like the one who goes back to his vomit.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The one who takes back his gift is like the dog that goes back to its vomit.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A man has more right to his gift so long as he has not gotten something in return for it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father that he delivered:“It is not permissible for a woman to dispose of her wealth except with her husband's permission, once he has married her.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar bin Khattab that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Do not take back your charity.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The likeness of the one who gives charity then takes it back is that of a dog who vomits then goes back and eats its vomit.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zubair bin 'Awwam that :he gave a horse called Ghamr or Ghamrah to someone, then he saw one of its colts or fillies attributed to his horse being sold, but he refrained from (buging) it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Shurahbil Muslim said:I heard Abu Umamah say: “I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Borrowed items are to be returned and an animal borrowed for milking is to be returned.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Borrowed items are to be returned and an animal borrowed for milking is to be returned.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The hand that takes is responsible for what it has taken until it returns it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever is entrusted with an item for safekeeping, is not responsible for it (so long as he is not negligent).' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Urwah Al-Bariqi that :the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him a Dinar to buy him a sheep, and he bought two sheep for him, then he sold one of them for a Dinar, and bought a Dinar and a sheep to the Prophet (ﷺ). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed for blessing for him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“(Wrongdoing) is when a rich man takes a long time to repay a debt, and if one of you is referred to a rich man (to collect a debt), he should accept that referral.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When a rich man takes too long to repay a debt, this is wrongdoing, and if the debt is transferred to a rich man, you should accept if.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Shurahbil bin Muslim Al-Khawlani said:I heard Abu Umamah Al-Bahil say: “I heard the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) say: “The guarantor is responsible and the debt must be repaid.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Ja'far that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah will be the borrower until he pays off his debt, so long as it (the loan) is not for something that Allah dislikes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Suhaib Al-Khair narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“ Any Man who takes out a loan, having resolved not to pay it back, will meet Allah (SWT) as a thief.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever takes people's wealth with the intention of destroying it, Allah (SWT) will destroy him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Thawban, the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Anyone whose soul leaves his body and he is free of three things, will enter Paradise: Arrogance, stealing from the spoils of war, and debt.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The soul of the believer is attached to his debt until it is paid off.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever dies owing a Dinar or a Dirham, it will be paid back from his good deeds, because then there will be no Dinar or Dirham.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever leaves behind money, it is for his heirs, and whoever leaves behind a debt for children, I am nearer to the believers.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Whoever is easy with (a debtor) who is in difficulty, Allah will be easy with him in this world and in the Hereafter.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Yasar, the Companion of the Prophet (ﷺ) that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Whoever would like Allah to shade him with His shade, let him give respite to one in difficulty, or waive repayment of the loan.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar and 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever demands his rights let him do so in a decent manner as much as he can.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to the one who was entitled to something:“Take your rights in a decent manner as much as he can.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best of you - or among the best of you - are those who pay off their debts in the best manner.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Sharid that his father said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If one who can afford it delays repayment, his honor and punishment become permissible.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Hirmas bin Habib narrated from his father that his grandfather said:“I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with a man who owed me money, and he said to me: 'Keep him.' Then he passed by me at the end of the day and said: 'What did your prisoner do, O brother of Banu Tamim?' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aisha that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) bought some food from a Jew with payment to be made later, and he pawned his armor for that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pawned his armor to a jew in Al-Madinah, and took barely for his family in return.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Asma' bin Yazid that:the Prophet (ﷺ) died while his armor was pawned to a Jew for food (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) died while his armor was pawned to a Jew for thirty Sa’s of barley.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A mount may be ridden when it is pawned, and its milk may be drunk when it is pawned, but the one who rides it or milks it must pay for its upkeep.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not forfeit items held in pledge.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Give the worker his wages before his sweat dries.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:“I used to draw water, one bucket for a date, and I stipulated that they should be good quality, dried dates.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever has land, let him cultivate it (himself) or let him give it to his brother (for free, to cultivate it), and if he does not want to do that, let him keep his land.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) addressed us and said: 'Whoever has land, let him cultivate it or allow someone else to cultivate it, and not rent it out.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sufyan, the freed slave of Ibn Abu Ahmad, that he told him that he heard Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri say:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade Muhaqlah.” (Sahih)Muhaqlah means leasing out land (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that he heard that people were leasing out land more. He said:“Subhan-Allah, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Why does not one of you lend it to his brother?' But he did not forbid leasing it out.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If one of you were to lend his brother his land, it would be better for him than taking such and such rent for it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Tawus that :Mu`adh bin Jabl leased some land during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, 'Umar and 'Uthmah, in return for one third or one fourth (of the yield), and he was still doing that until this day of yours (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Tawus that Ibn`Abbas told that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) merely said:“For one of you to give (land) to his brother is better for him than if he were to take a set amount in rent for it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi` bin Khadij said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever cultivates people`s land without their permission, he has no right to any produce, but he should be recompensed for his expenditure.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn `Umar that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered into a contract with the people of Khaibar for one half of the fruits or crops yielded (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave Khaibar to its people in return of its palm trees and land (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) conquered Khaibar, he gave it (to its people) in return for half (of its yield).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Muslims are partners in three things: water, pasture and fire, and their price is unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Three things cannot be denied to anyone: water, pasture and fire.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Minhal said:“I heard Iyas bin 'Abd Muzani say - when he saw people selling water: 'Do not sell water, for I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbidding selling of water.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling surplus water.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“No one of you should withhold surplus water from common pastureland.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Surplus water should not be withheld, and neither should surplus water from a well (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu`aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled concerning the stream of Mahzur that the water should be retained until it reached the ankles, then released (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Kathir bin 'Abdullah bin 'Amr bin 'Awf Al-Muzani, from his father, that his grandfather said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Start with the horses on the day that you bring (the animals to drink).' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever digs a well, is entitled to forty forearms' length surrounding it is as a resting place for his flocks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The land around a well (that is considered to be part of it) is the length of the well rope (in all directions).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah Said:“The land around a date-palm tree, as far as its branches reach, belongs to the owner of the tree.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah bin Yaman that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever sells a house and does not use the money for something similar, will not to be blessed therein.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever has a date-palm tree or land, should not sell it until he has offered it to his partner.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever has land and wants to sell it, let him offer it to his neighbor.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The neighbor has more right to preemption of his neighbor, so let him wait for him even if he is absent, if they share a path.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Rafi' that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The neighbor has more right to property that is near.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sharid bin Suwaid said:“I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, (what do you think of) land owned by only one person but this land has neighbors?' He said: 'The neighbor has more right to property that is near.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Rafi' that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The partner has more right to what is near him, so long as he is still a partner.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Abdullah that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled that preemption takes effect in all cases where land has not been divided. But if the boundaries have been set and the roads laid out, then there is no preemption.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Preemption is like undoing the `Iqal.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no preemption for a partner when his co-partner has beaten him to it (in another deal before), not for a minor nor one who is absent.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mutarrif bin 'Abdullah bin Shikhkhir that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The lost animal of the Muslim may lead to the burning flame of Hell.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“One fifth is due on buried treasure.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“One fifth is due on buried treasure.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sold a Mudabbar (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:“A man among us promised freedom to a slave after his death, and he did not have any property other than him (this slave). So the Prophet (ﷺ) sold him, and Ibn (Nahham), a man from Banu 'Adi, bought him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The Mudabbar is part of the one third of the estate.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Any man whose slave won an bears him a child, she will be free after he dies.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn`Abbas said:“Mention was made of the mother of Ibrahim in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he said: 'Her son set her free.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Jabir bin `Abdullah was heard to say:“We used to sell our slave women and the mothers of our children (Umahat Awaldina) when the Prophet (ﷺ) was still living among us, and we did not see anything wrong with that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah (ra) said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said "Three who's support is a right upon Allah:the warrior in the path of Allah, the mukatab seeking to fulfill (his manumission debt), and the one getting married seeking chastity (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If anyone of you (women) has a Mukatab, and he has enough (wealth) to pay off (his contact of manumission), she must veil herself from him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:“I said: 'O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), which slave is best?' He said: ‘The one who is most precious to his master and most valuable in price.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundub that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever becomes the master of a Mahram relative (with whom marriage is not lawful), he becomes free.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever becomes the master of a Mahram relative, he becomes free.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from that Safinah - Abu 'Abdur-Rahman-said :“Umm Salamah freed me but stipulated that I should serve the Prophet (ﷺ) as long he lived.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever frees a slave who has some wealth, the slave's wealth belongs to him, unless the master stipulates that it will belong to him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Maimunah bint Sa`d, the freed slave woman of the Prophet (ﷺ) that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about illegitimate children. He said: “Two sandals in which I wage Jihad are better than freeing an illegitimate child.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that :`Aishah had a male slave and a female slave who were married. She said: “O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), I want to free them both.” The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “If you free them, then start with the man before the woman.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever changes his religion, execute him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn `Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Carrying out one of the legal punishments prescribed by Allah (SWT) is better than if it were to rain for forty nights in the land of Allah (SWT), Glorified is He.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A legal punishment that is carried out in the land is better for the people of that land than if it were to rain for forty days.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from `Ubadah bin Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Carry out the legal punishments on relatives and strangers, and do not let the fear of blame stop you from carrying out the command of Allah (SWT).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdul-Malik bin 'Umair said:“I heard 'Atiyyah Al-Qurazi say: Here I am still among you,' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn`Umar said:“I was presented to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the day of Uhud, when I was fourteen years old, but he did not permit me (to fight). I was presented to him on the Day of Khandaq when I was fifteen years old, and he permitted me (to fight).' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever covers (the sin of) a Muslim, Allah will cover him (his sin) in this world and in the Hereafter.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Ward off the legal punishments as much as you can.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Muhabbiq that:the case of a man who had intercourse with the slave woman of his wife was referred to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he did not stipulate any legal punishment for him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Umar:The Prophet (ﷺ) stoned two Jews, and I was among those who stoned them. I saw (the man) trying to shield (the woman) from the stones.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Samurah that :the Prophet (ﷺ) stoned a Jewish man and a Jewish woman (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If I were to stone anyone without proof, I would have stoned so-and-so, for there is obviously doubt concerning her speech, her appearance and those who enter upon her.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever you find doing the action of the people of Lut, kill the one who does it, and the one to whom it is done.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said concerning those who do the action of the people of Lut:“Stone the upper and the lower, stone them both.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin`Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The thing that I most fear for my nation is the action of the people of Lut.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn`Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever has intercourse with a Mahram relative, kill him; and whoever has intercourse with an animal, kill him, and kill the animal.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah, Zaid bin Khalid and Shibl said:“We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) and a man asked him about a slave woman who commits fornication (again), whip her, even if that is for a rope of hair.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Aishah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:“If a slave woman commits fornication then whip her, and if she commits fornication then whip her, and if she commits fornication then whip her, then sell her even if that is for a rope.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:“When my innocence was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood on the pulpit and mentioned that, and he recited Quran. When he came down, he ordered that the legal punishment (of slandering) be carried out on two men and a woman.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If one man says another: 'O effeminate one!' give him twenty lashes. And if one man says to another: 'O homosexual!' give him twenty twenty lashes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib said:“I would not pay the blood money (Diyah) for those on whom I carried out the legal punishment, except for the wine-drinker. The Messenger of Allah did not institute anything in that case, rather it is something that we would do.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to beat (offenders) for drinking wine with sandals and date-palm stalks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu`awiyah bin Abu Sufyan that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If they drink (again), then whip them. If they drink (again), then whip them. If they drink (again), then whip them. If they drink (again), then kill them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever bears weapons against us is not one of us.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn `Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever bears weapons against us is not one of us.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever brandishes weapons against us is not one of us.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that :some people raided the she-camels of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) , so the Prophet(ﷺ) cut off their hands and feet (on opposite sides) and lanced (gouged out) their eyes (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Zaid bin 'Amr bin Nufail that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever is killed defending his property, he is a martyr.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn `Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If a man's property is targeted, and he is fought and fights back and is killed, he is a martyr.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If a man's property is wrongfully targeted, and he is killed, he is a martyr.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W.) said:“May Allah curse the thief! He steals an egg and his hand is cut off, and he steals a rope and his hand is cut off” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:“The Prophet (S.A.W.) cut off (the hand of a thief) for a shield worth three Dirham.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W.) said:“Do not cut off (the thief's hand) except for something worth one quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Amir bin Sa'd, from this father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The hand of the thief is to be cut off for the price of a shield (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Muhairiz said:“I asked Fadalah bin Ubaid about hanging the hand (of the thief) from this neck, and he said: 'It is sunnah. The messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cut off a man's hand then hung it from his neck (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If a slave steals, then sell him, even for half Price.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that :one of the slaves of Khumus stole something from the Khumus, and the matter was referred to the Prophet (ﷺ) but he did not cut off his hand, and he said ' The Property of Allah, (STW) part of it stealing another part.' ” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The hand of the one who betrays a trust, the robber and the pilferer is not to be cut off” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibrahim bin Abdur-Rahman bin Awf that his father said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'The hand of the pilferer is not to be cut off” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Rafi bin Khadij that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not carry out the legal punishment in the mosque.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade lashing for the legal punishment in the mosques (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Burdah bin Niyar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say:“No one should be given more than ten lashes, except in the case of one of the legal punishments of Allah (SWT).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not punish with more than ten whips.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ubadah bin Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever among you undergoes a Hadd, his punishment has been brought forward, and it is an expiation for him otherwise his case rests with Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'awiyah bin Qurrah that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent me to a man who had married his father's wife after he died, to strike his neck (execute him) and confiscate his wealth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Uthman Nahdi said:“I heard Sa'd and Abu Bakrah both say that they heard directly from Muhammad (ﷺ) saying it and memorized: 'Whoever claims to belong to someone other than his father knowing the he is not his father, Paradise will be forbidden to him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Amr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever claims to belong to someone other than his father will not smell the fragrance of Paradise, even though its fragrance may be detected from a distance of five hundred years.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The first matter concerning which judgment will be passed among the people on the Day of Resurrection will be bloodshed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“No person is killed wrongfully, but a share of responsibility for his blood will be upon, the first son of Adam, because he was the first one to kill.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The first matter concerning which judgment will be passed among the people on the Day of Resurrection will be bloodshed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Uqbah bin Amir Al-Juhani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever meets Allah (SWT) not associating anything in worship with him, and not having shed any blood unlawfully, will enter Paradise.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bara' bin Azib that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If this world were to be destroyed, that would be less significant before Allah (SWT) than the unlawful killing of a believer.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever helps to kill a believer, even with half a world, he will meet Allah (SWT) with (the words) written between his eyes, 'He has no hope of the mercy of Allah (SWT).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If a person's relative is killed, he has the choice of two things: He may either have the killer killed, or he may demand the blood money.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) set the blood money at twelve thousand (Dirham) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mughirah bin Shu'bah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled that the blood money must be paid by the 'Aqilah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abbas bin 'Abdul-Muttalib that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no retaliation for a head wound that does not reach the brain, a spear wound that does not penetrate deeply, or a wound that dislocates a bone.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubadah bin Samit:That the Prophet (ﷺ) ruled that Hamal bin Malik Hudhali Al-Lihyani should inherit from his wife who was killed by his other wife (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his grandfather, that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled that the blood money for the people of the book is half of that of the blood money for the Muslims, and they are the Jews and Christians (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “The killer does not inherit.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Teeth are all the same; the incisor and the molar are the same.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :the Prophet (ﷺ) ruled that (the compensatory money) for a tooth was five camels (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“This and this are the same” - meaning the pinky finger, ring finger and thumb (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The fingers are all same, and (the compensatory money) for each of them is ten camels (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The fingers are the same.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) of said:“For a wound that exposes a bone, is five; (the compensation) is five camels.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that a :man bit another man on his forearm; he pulled away his arm away and the man’s tooth fell out. The matter was referred to Prophet (ﷺ) who invalidated it and said: 'Would one of you bite (another) like a stallion?'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A Muslim should not be killed in retaliation for the murder of a disbeliever.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:”A believer should not be killed in retaliation for the murder of a disbeliever, and a person who has a treaty should not be killed during the time of the treaty.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A father should not be killed for his son.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that 'Umar bin Khattab said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'A father should not be killed for his son.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundab that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever kills his slave, we will kill him, and whoever mutilates (his slave) we will mutilate him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that :a Jew crushed the head of a woman between two rocks and killed her, so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) crushed his head between two rocks (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nu'man bin Bashir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no retaliation except with the sword.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no retaliation except with the sword.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Tariq Al-Muharibi said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raising his hands until I saw the whiteness of his armpits, saying: 'No child should be punished because of his mother's crime, no child should be punished because of his mother's crime.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Khashkhash Al-Anbari said:“I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and my son was with me. He said: 'You will not be punished because of his crime and he will not be punished because of yours.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Usamah bin Sharik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“No person will be punished because of another's crime.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:“The injuries caused by the beast are without liability, and wells are without liability, and mines are without liability.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Khathir bin 'Abdullah bin 'Amr bin 'Awf narrated that his grandfather said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'The injuries cause by the beast are without liability, and mines are without liability.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubadah bin Samit said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled that there is no liability for injuries caused by falling into a mines or a well, nor those caused by a beast.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“(The injuries caused by) a fire are without liability, and by falling into a well.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Rawh bin Zinba', that :his grandfather came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he had castrated a slave of his. The Prophet (ﷺ) manumitted the slave in compensation for having been mutilated (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The most decent of the people in killing are the people of faith.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The most decent people in killing are the people of faith.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The blood of every Muslims is equal, they are one hand against others. The asylum offered by the lowest of them in status applies to them (all), and the return is granted to the farthest of them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ma'qil bin Yasar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Muslims are one hand against others, and their blood is equal.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever kills a Mu'ahid, will not smell the fragrance of Paradise, even though its fragrance may be detected from a distance of forty years.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever kills a Mu'ahid who has the protection of Allah and the protection of his Messenger, will not smell the fragrance of Paradise, even though its fragrance may be detected from a distance of Seventy years.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ata bin Abu Maimunah said:“I only know it from Anas bin Malik who said: 'No case involving retaliation was referred to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) but he enjoined forgiveness.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Darda said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'There is no man who suffers some (injury) on his body and forgives (the perpetrator), but Allah (SWT) will raise him one degree in status thereby, or erase from him one sin.'My own ears heard it and my heart memorized it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not leave behind a Dinar nor a Dirham, nor a sheep, nor a camel, and he did not make a will concerning anything.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“What the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) most enjoined when he was dying and breathing his last was: The prayer; and those whom your right hands possess.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali bin Abu Talib said:“The last words of the Prophet (ﷺ) were: The prayer; and those whom your right hands prossess.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Muslim man has no right to spend two nights, if he has something for which a will should be made, without having a written will with him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The one who is deprived is the one who is deprived of a will.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever dies leaving a will, he dies on the right path and Sunnah, and he dies with piety and witness, and he dies forgiven.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The Muslim man has no right to spend two nights, if he has something for which will should be made, without having a written will with him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever tries to avoid giving the inheritance to his heirs, Allah (SWT) will deprive him of his inheritance in Paradise on the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah (SWT) has been charitable with you over the disposal of one third of your wealth at the time of your death, so that you may be able to add to the record of your good deeds.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:“I would like the people to reduce (the will) from one third to one quarter, because the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'One third is a lot.'” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Shurahbil bin Muslim Al-Khawlani narrated from Abu Umamah Al-Bahili that the heard :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say in his sermon, during the year of the Farewell pilgrimage: “Allah (SWT) has given each person who has rights his rights, and there is no bequest for in heir.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I was under the she-camel of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and its saliva was dripping between my shoulders, and I heard him say: 'Allah (SWT) has given each person who has rights his rights, but there is no bequest for an heir.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that a man asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ):“My father died and left behind wealth, but he did not make a will. Will it expiate for him if I give charity on his behalf?” He said: “Yes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“O Abu Hurairah. Learn about the inheritance and teach it, for it is half of knowledge, but it will be forgotten. This is the first thing that will be taken away from my nation.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ma’qil bin Yasar Al-Muzani said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) when a case was brought to him which involved the share of a grandfather. He gave him one third, or one sixth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ma’qil bin Yasar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ruled concerning a grandfather who was among us, that he should receive one sixth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave a grandmother one sixth of the inheritance (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Umar bin Khattab said:“There are three things, if the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had clarified them, that would have been dearer to me than the world and everything in it: a person who leaves behind no heir, usury, and the caliphate.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Usamah bin Zaid, who attributed it to the Prophet (ﷺ):“The Muslim does not inherit from a disbeliever and the disbeliever does not inherit from a Muslim.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“People of two different religions do not inherit from one another.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the freed slave of the Prophet (ﷺ) fell from a palm tree and died. He left behind wealth but he had no child or close relative. The Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Give his legacy to a man from his village.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that the daughter of Hamzah said:“My freed slave died, leaving behind a daughter. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) divided his wealth between myself and his daughter, giving me half and her half.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The killer does not inherit.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Distribute wealth among those who are entitled to shares of inheritance, according to the Book of Allah, then whatever is left over goes to the nearest male relative.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“A man died at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he left no heir except for a slave whom he had set free. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave the legacy to him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Wathilah bin Asqa’ that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“A woman may get three types of inheritance: From her freed slave woman, a foundling whom she raised, and her child concerning whom she swore in Li’an that he was legitimate.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“It is disbelief for a man to attribute himself to someone other than his father knowingly, or to deny his connection to his father, even subtly.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling the right of inheritance or giving it away.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade selling the right of inheritance, or giving it as a gift (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If the child has cired, the (funeral) prayer should be offered for him (if he dies) and he is an heir.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah and Miswar bin Makhrumah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“No child inherits until he raises his voice or cries.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Going out in the morning in the cause of Allah, or in the evening, is more virtuous than the world and what is in it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sahl bin Sa’d As-Sa’idi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Going out in the morning in the cause of Allah, or in the evening, is better than the world and what is in it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Going out in the morning in the cause of Allah, or in the evening, is better than the world and what is in it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Umar bin Khattab said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Whoever equips a warrior in the cause of Allah until he is fully equipped, he will have a reward like his, until he dies or returns.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever equips a warrior in the cause of Allah, he will have a reward like his, without that detracting from the warrior’s reward in the slightest.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Thawban that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best Dinar that a man can spend is a Dinar that he spends on his family, a Dinar that he spends on a horse in the cause of Allah, and a Dinar that a man spends on his companions in the cause of Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever does not fight, or equip a fighter, or stay behind to look after a fighter’s family, Allah will strike him with a calamity before the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever meets Allah with no mark on him (as a result of fighting) in His cause, he will meet Him with a deficiency.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“in Al-Madinah there are men who, every time you crossed a valley or travelled a road, they shared with you in the reward. They were kept behind by (legitimate) excuses.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Uqbah bin ‘Amir Al-Juhani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“May Allah have mercy on the one who keeps watch over the troops.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to a man:“I advise you to fear Allah and to say the Takbir (Allahu Akbar) in every high place.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If you are called to arms then go forth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The dust (of Jihad) in the cause of Allah and the smoke of Hell will never be combined in the interior of a Muslim.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever goes out in the cause of Allah will have the equivalent of the dust that got on him, in musk, on the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Darda’ that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A military expedition by sea is like ten expeditions by land. The one who suffers from seasickness is like one who gets drenched in his own blood in the cause of Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Even if there was only one day left of this world, Allah would make it last until a man from my household took possession of (the mountain of) Dailam and Constantinople.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Urwah Al-Bariqi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Goodness is tied to the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is goodness in the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to dislike horses that had three legs with white markings on them, and one leg the same color as the rest of the body.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Tamim Ad-Dari said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Whoever ties a horse in the cause of Allah, then feeds it with his own hand, he will have one merit for every grain.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu’adh bin Jabal narrated that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say:“Any Muslim who fights in the cause of Allah for the time between two milkings of a she-camel, he will be guaranteed Paradise.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I was present in a war, and ‘Abdullah bin Rawahah said: O soul of mine! I see that you do Not want to go to Paradise. I swear by Allah that you surely Will enter it, willingly or Unwillingly.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amr bin ‘Abasah said:“I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, which Jihad is best?’ He said: ‘(That of a man) whose blood is shed and his horse is wounded.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Sahl bin Abu Umamah bin Sahl bin Hunaif narrated from his father, from his grandfather that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever asks Allah for martyrdom, sincerely from his heart, Allah will cause him to reach the status of the martyrs even if he dies in his bed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The martyr does not feel anything more when he is killed than one of you feels if he is pinched (by a bug).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Makkah on the day of the Conquest, with a helmet on his head (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sa’ib bin Yazid, if Allah wills, that the Prophet (ﷺ) wore two coats of mail on the Day of Uhud, one over the other (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Sulaiman bin Habib said:“We entered upon Abu Umamah and he saw some silver ornaments on our swords. He got angry and said: ‘People conquered lands and their swords were not adorned with gold and silver, but with lead and iron and ‘Alabi.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) acquired his sword Dhulfiqar, from the spoils of war on the Day of badr (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amr bin ‘Abasah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Whoever shoots an arrow at the enemy and his arrow reaches the enemy, whether it hits him or not, that is equivalent to him freeing a slave.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Uqbah bin ‘Amir Al-Juhani said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting on the pulpit: ‘And make ready against them all you can of power.’[8:60] (And saying that) three times – ‘Power means shooting.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Uqbah bin ‘Amir Al-Juhani said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Whoever learns how to shoot (arrows) then abandons it, has disobeyed me.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by some people who were shooting (arrows) and said: ‘Shoot, Banu Isma’il, for your father was an archer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Makkah on the Day of the Conquest, and his standard was white (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the flag of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was black, and his standard was white (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu ‘Umar, the freed slave of Asma’, from Asma’ bint Abi Bakr, that she brought out a cloak edged with brocade and said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to wear this when he met the enemy.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Umar that he used to forbid silk and brocade except that which was like that, then he gestured with his finger, then his second finger, then his third, then his fourth,* and said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to forbid that to us.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ja’far bin ‘Amr bin Huraith narrated that his father said:“It is as if I can see the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), wearing a black turban, with its two ends hanging between his shoulders.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Makkah wearing a black turban (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave me a send-off and said: ‘I command you to Allah’s keeping, Whose trust is never lost.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would dispatch troops, he would say to the leader: ‘I commend to Allah’s keeping your religious commitment, your dignity and the end of your deeds.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Lahi’ah bin ‘Uqbah said:“I heard Abul-Ward, the Companion of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), say: ‘Beware of the troop which, when it meets (the enemy) it flees, and when it takes spoils of war, it steals from it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Qabisah bin Hulb that his father said:“I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the food of the Christians and he said: ‘Do not have any doubt about food, (thereby) following the way of the Christians in that.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘We do not seek the help of the polytheist.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“War is deceit.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“War is deceit.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Iyas bin Salamah bin Akwa’ that his father said:“I fought a man and killed him, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) awarded me his spoils.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Muhammad, the freed slave of Abu Qatadah (from Abu Qatadah) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) awarded him the spoils of a man whom he killed on the Day of Hunain (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from the son of Samurah bin Jundub that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever kills, the spoils are his.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“Sa’b bin Jaththamah said: ‘The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about the polytheists who are attacked at night, and their women and children are killed.’ He said: ‘They are from among them.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw a woman who had been killed on the road, and he forbade killing women and children (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Usamah bin Said said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent me to a village called Ubna, and said: “Go to Ubna in the morning and burn it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) burned the palm trees of Banu Nadir, and cut down Buwairah (the name of their garden). Then Allah revealed the words:“What you (O Muslims) cut down of the palm trees (of the enemy), or you left them standing...” [59:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) burned the palm trees of Banu Nadir and cut them down. Concerning that, their poet said: “It is easy for the elite of Banu Luai – To burn Al-Buwairah in a Frightening manner.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr said:“There was a man called Kirkah in charge of the goods of the Prophet (ﷺ), who died. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘He is in Hell.’ They went and looked, and found him wearing a garment or a cloak that he had stolen from the spoils of war.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Habib bin Maslamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) awarded one third (of the spoils of war) after the one fifth (had been taken) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubadah bin Samit that the Prophet (ﷺ) awarded one quarter of the spoils to those who attacked the enemy at the beginning and one third to those who attacked at the end (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Amr bin Shu’aib narrated from his father that his grandfather said:“There is no awarding of the spoils after the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), rather whatever the army acquires (of spoils of war) will be distributed among strong and weak alike.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) distributed the war spoils on the Day of Khaibar, giving three shares to the horseman, two shares for the horse, and one share for the man (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm ‘Atiyyah Al-Ansariyyah said:“I fought alongside the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in seven campaigns, looking after their goods, making food for them, tending the wounded and looking after the sick.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever obeys me, obeys Allah, And whoever disobeys me, disobeys Allah. Whoever obeys the ruler, obeys me, and whoever disobeys the ruler, disobeys me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Listen and obey, even if the one appointed over you is an Ethiopian slave with a head like a raisin.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Husain that she heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“Even if the one appointed over you is a mutilated Ethiopian slave whose nose and ears have been cut off, listen to him and obey, so long as he leads you according to the Book of Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Muslim is obliged to obey (the ruler) whether he likes it or not, unless he is commanded to commit an act of disobedience. If he is commanded to commit a sin then he should neither listen nor obey.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Attab, the freed slave of Hurmuz, said:“I heard Anas bin Malik say: ‘We gave our pledge to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the basis that we would listen and obey. He (ﷺ) said: “As much as you can.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A banner will be set up for every traitor on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said: ‘This is the treachery of so-and- so.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“For every traitor a banner will be set up on the Day of Resurrection, commensurate with his treachery.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Muhammad bin Munkadir said that he heard Umaimah bint Ruqaiqah say:“I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with some other women, to offer our pledge to him. He said to us: ‘(I accept your pledge) with regard to what you are able to do. But I do not shake hands with women.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) made a horse lean, and he would send the horse that he had made lean from Hafya’ to Thaniyyatul-Wada’, and (he would send) the horse that he had not made lean from Thaniyyatul-Wada’ to the mosque of Banu Zuraiq.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There should be no prizes for racing except races with camels and horses.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade traveling with the Qur’an to the land of the enemy, lest the enemy gets hold of it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to forbid traveling with the Qur’an to the land of the enemy, lest the enemy gets hold of it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that Fadl said – or vice verse:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever intends to perform Hajj, let him hasten to do so, for he may fall sick, lose his mount, or be faced with some need.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that Aqra’ bin Habis asked the Prophet (ﷺ):“O Messenger of Allah, is Hajj (required) every year, or just once” He said: “Rather it is just once. And whoever can perform Hajj voluntarily, let him do so.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Perform Hajj and ‘Umrah, one after the other, for performing them one after the other removes poverty and sin as the bellows removes impurity from iron.” Another chain reports a similar hadith (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“From one ‘Umrah to another is an expiation for the sins that came in between them, and Hajj Mabrur (an accepted Hajj) brings no less a reward than Paradise.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever performs Hajj to this House, and does not have sexual relations nor commit any disobedience, will go back like the day his mother bore him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Hajj on an old saddle, wearing a cloak that was worth four Dirham or less. Then he said: ‘O Allah, a Hajj in which there is no showing off nor reputation sought.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The pilgrims performing Hajj and ‘Umrah are a delegation to Allah. If they call upon Him, He will answer them; and if they ask for His forgiveness, He will forgive them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The one who fights in the cause of Allah, and the pilgrim performing Hajj and ‘Umrah are a delegation to Allah. He invited them, so they responded to Him, and they ask Him and He gives to them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar (from ‘Umar) that he asked the Prophet (ﷺ) for permission to perform ‘Umrah, and he gave him permission and said to him:“O younger brother, give us a share of your supplication, and do not forget us.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Provision and a mount,” meaning, about Allah’s saying: “Whoever can bear the way.” [3:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“No woman should travel the distance of three days or more, unless she is with her father, brother, son, husband or a Mahram.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to travel for more than one day’s distance without a Mahram.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“A Bedouin came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: ‘I have enlisted for such and such a military campaign and my wife is going for Hajj.’ He said: ‘Go back with her.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, is Jihad obligatory for women?’ He said: “Yes: Upon them is a Jihad in which there is no fighting: Al-Hajj and Al-‘Umrah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Hajj is the Jihad of every weak person.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: ‘Shall I perform Hajj on behalf of my father?’ He said: ‘Yes, perform Hajj on behalf of your father, for if you cannot add any good to his record (at least) you will not add anything bad.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:Husain bin ‘Awf told me: I said: “O Messenger of Allah, the command for Hajj has come but my father cannot perform Hajj unless he is tied to a saddle.” Some time passed, then he said: “Perform Hajj on behalf of your father.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“A woman held up a child of hers to the Prophet (ﷺ) during Hajj and said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, is there Hajj for this one?’ He said: ‘Yes, and you will be rewarded.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“Asma’ bint ‘Umais gave birth at Shajarah, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) told Abu Bakr to tell her to take a bath and begin the Talbiyah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“Asma’ bint ‘Umais gave birth to Muhammad bin Abi Bakr and sent word to the Prophet (ﷺ). He told her to take a bath, fasten a cloth around her private part and begin the Talbiyah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) put his foot in the stirrup and his riding beast rose up with him, he would say the Talbiyah from the mosque of Dhul-Hulaifah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say in his Talbiyah:“Labbaika ilahal-haqq, labbaika (Here I am, O god of Truth, here I am).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Khallad bin Sa’ib, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Jibra’il came to me and told me to command my Companions to raise their voices when reciting the Talbiyah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Jibril came to me and said: ‘O Muhammad! Tell your Companions to raise their voices when reciting the Talbiyah, for it is one of the symbols of Hajj.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakr As-Siddiq that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked:“Which actions are best?” He said: “Raising one’s voice and slaughtering the sacrificial animal.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I put perfume on the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for his Ihram before he entered into it, and when he exited Ihram before he returned.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“It is as if I can see the races of perfume in the parting (of hair) of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), while he is reciting the Talbiyah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“It is as if I can see the traces of perfume in the parting (of hair) of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) after three days, and he was a Muhrim.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the Muhrim to wear a garment dyed with Wars or saffron.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever does not have sandals let him wear leather socks, and let him cut them to below the ankle.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“We were with the Prophet (ﷺ), and we were in Ihram. When a rider met us we would lower our garments from the top of our heads, and when he has gone, we would lift them up again.” Another chain reports a similar hadith (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Duba’ah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered upon me when I was unwell. He said: ‘Do you intend to perform Hajj this year?’ I said: ‘I am sick, O Messenger of Allah.’ He said: ‘Go for Hajj and say: “I will exit Ihram from the point where I am prevented.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Abbas said:“The Prophets used to enter the Haram walking barefoot. They would circumambulate the House and complete all the rituals barefoot and walking.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to enter Makkah from the upper mountain pass and when he left, he would leave from the lower mountain pass (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Makkah by day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) turned to face the Stone, then he put his lips on it and wept for a long time. Then he turned and saw ‘Umar bin Khattab weeping. He said: ‘O ‘Umar, this is the place where tears should be shed.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf on a camel during the Farewell Pilgrimage, touching the corner with a staff (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ma’ruf bin Kharrabudh Al-Makki narrated:“I heard Abu Tufail, ‘Amir bin Wathilah, say: ‘I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) performing Tawaf on his camel, touching the corner with his staff and kissing the staff.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) walked briskly (Ramala), from the Hijr to the Hijr, three times, then he walked normally for four (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Ya’la bin Umayyah that his father Ya’la said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) performed Tawaf while doing Idtiba’.”* (In his narration, one of the narrators) Qabisah said: “While wearing a Yemenite cloth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Whoever performs Tawaf around the House and prays two Rak’ah, it is as if he freed a slave.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came and performed Tawaf around the House seven times, then he prayed two Rak’ahs. Waki’ said:“Meaning, at the Maqam,* then he went out to Safa.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that she fell sick, so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) told her to perform Tawaf from behind the people, riding. She said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying facing the House, and reciting: “By the Tur (Mount), And by the Book Inscribed.’” [52:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed Hajj Ifrad (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah the Mother of the Believers that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed Hajj Ifrad (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed Hajj Ifrad (Single Hajj) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthman performed Hajj Ifrad (Single Hajj) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“We went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to Makkah, and I heard him say: ‘Labbaika ‘Umratan wa hajjatan [Here I am (O Allah), for ‘Umrah and Hajj].’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Labbaika bi-‘Umratin wa hajjatin [Here I am (O Allah), for ‘Umrah and Hajj].” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“Abu Talhah told me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed Hajj and ‘Umrah together (Qiran).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah, Ibn ‘Umar and Ibn ‘Abbas that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and his Companions came (to Makkah) to perform their Hajj and ‘Umrah, they only performed Tawaf once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) performed one Tawaf for Hajj and ‘Umrah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that he came (to Makkah) to perform Hajj and ‘Umrah together (Qiran). He circumambulated the House seven times, and performed Sa’y between Safa and Marwah, then he said:“This is what the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever enters Ihram for Hajj and ‘Umrah, one Tawaf is sufficient for both, and he should not exit Ihram until he has completed his Hajj, when he should exit Ihram for both.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Umar bin Khattab said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say, when he was in ‘Aqiq: “Someone came to me from my Lord and said: ‘Pray in this blessed valley and say: (I intend to do) ‘Umrah in Hajj.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Suraqah bin Ju’shum said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up to deliver a speech in this valley, and said: ‘Lo! ‘Umrah has been included in Hajj until the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Harith bin Bilal bin Harith, that his father said:“I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, do you think that this cancellation of Hajj and it being replaced with ‘Umrah is only for us, or for all people?’ The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘No, it is only for us.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:“Tamattu’ in Hajj was for the Companions of Muhammad (ﷺ) specifically.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narratd that an Umm Walad* of Shaibah said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing Sa’y between Safa and Marwah saying: ‘The valley should not be crossed except quickly.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“If I go quickly between Safa and Marwah, that is because I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) going quickly, and if I walk that is because I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) walking, even though I am an old man.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Talhah bin ‘Ubaidullah that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“Hajj is Jihad and ‘Umrah is voluntary.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Wahb bin Khanbash that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“ ‘Umrah during Ramadan is equivalent to Hajj (i.e. in reward).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Harim bin Khanbash that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘ ‘Umrah during Ramadan is equivalent to Hajj (i.e., in reward).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ma’qil that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“ ‘Umrah during Ramadan is equivalent to Hajj.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Umrah during Ramadan is equivalent to Hajj.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“ ‘Umrah during Ramadan is equivalent to Hajj.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not perform any ‘Umrah except in Dhul-Qa’dah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not perform any ‘Umrah except in Dhul-Qa’dah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Bakr narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) told him to seat ‘Aishah behind him on his riding animal, and perform ‘Umrah with her from Tan’im (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever begins the Talbiyah for ‘Umrah from Baitul-Maqdis, will be forgiven.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever begins the Talbiyah for ‘Umrah from Baitul-Maqdis, that will be an expiation for all his previous sins.” She said: “So I went out.” Meaning, from Baitul-Maqdis for ‘Umrah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed ‘Umrah four times: The ‘Umrah of Hudaibiyah, the ‘Umrah to make up for (the one not completed previously), the third from Ji’ranah and the fourth that he did with his Hajj.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed in Mina, on the Day of Tarwiyah (the 8th of Dhul-Hijjah), Zuhr, ‘Asr, Maghrib, ‘Isha’ and Fajr, then he went in the morning to ‘Arafat (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that he used to pray all five prayers in Mina, then he would tell them that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:‘I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, should we not build you a house in Mina?’ He said: ‘No, Mina is just a stopping place for those who get there first.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“We said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, should we not build you a house in Mina that will be a means of shade for you?’ He said: ‘No, Mina is just a stopping place for those who get there first.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“We went in the morning on this day with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) from Mina to ‘Arafat. Some of us recited the Takbir (Allahu Akbar) and some of us recited the Tahlil (La ilaha illallah), and neither criticized the other.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stopped at ‘Arafat and said: ‘This is the place of standing, and all of ‘Arafat is a place of standing.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Usamah bin Zaid that he was asked:“How did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) travel when he departed from ‘Arafat?” He said: “He moved at a quick pace, and when he reached an open space he would make his camel run.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Quraish said: ‘We are the neighbors of the House and we do not leave the sanctuary.’ Allah said: ‘Then depart from the place whence all the people depart.’” [2:] (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Yazid Al-Khatmi that he heard Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari say:“I prayed Maghrib and ‘Isha’ with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) during the Farewell Pilgrimage, at Muzdalifah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubaidullah, from Salim, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed Maghrib at Muzdalifah. When we halted he said:“Prayer should be done with Iqamah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“We youngsters from the clan of ‘Abdul-Muttalib came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), from Jam’, on donkeys of ours. He started striking our thighs and saying: ‘O my sons, do not stone the Pillar until the sun rises.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“I was among the weak ones of his family (i.e., the women and children) whom the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent on ahead.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that Sawdah bint Zam’ah was a slow- moving woman, so she asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for permission to depart from Jam’ ahead of the people, and he gave her permission (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sulaiman bin ‘Amr bin Ahwas that his mother said:“I saw the Prophet (saw0 on the Day of Sacrifice, at ‘Aqabah Pillar, riding a mule. He said: ‘O people! When you stone the Pillar, throw small pebbles.’”) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar stoned ‘Aqabah Pillar, but he did not stay there, and he mentioned that the Prophet (ﷺ) had done likewise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had stoned ‘Aqabah Pillar, he would continue on, and would not stay there.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) stoned the Pillar from atop his mount (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qudamah bin ‘Abdullah Al-‘Amiri said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) stone the Pillar, on the Day of Sacrifice, from atop a reddish-brown camel of his, without beating anyone, driving them off or telling them to go away.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Baddah bin ‘Asim, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) granted permission for some shepherds to stone one day and to not stone (the next) day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“We performed Hajj with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and there were women and children with us. We recited Talbiyah on behalf of the children and stoned the Pillars on their behalf.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) recited Talbiyah until he stoned ‘Aqabah Pillar (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“Fadl bin ‘Abbas said: ‘I was riding behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and I continued to hear him reciting the Talbiyah until he stoned ‘Aqabah Pillar, and when he stoned it, he stopped reciting the Talbiyah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“When you have stoned the Pillar, everything becomes permissible to you except your wives. A man said to him: ‘O Ibn ‘Abbas, and perfume?’ He said: ‘I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) perfume his head with musk. Is that perfume or not?’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I applied perfume to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for his Ihram when he entered Ihram, and when he exited Ihram.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“It was said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, why did you support (by supplicating for) those who shave (their heads) three times and those who cut (their hair) only once?’ He said: ‘Because they did not entertain any doubts.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting the Talbiyah when he entered Ihram with something applied to his head to keep the hair together.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“All of Mina is a place of sacrifice. Every road of Makkah is a thoroughfare and a place of sacrifice. All of ‘Arafat is the place of standing, and all of Muzdalifah is a place of standing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was never asked about someone who had done one thing before another, but he would gesture with both his hands to say: ‘There is no harm in that.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr that the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about a man who slaughtered his sacrifice before shaving his head, or who shaved his head before slaughtering his sacrifice, and he said:“There is no harm in that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stoning ‘Aqabah Pillar at forenoon, but after that day, he would do it after the sun had passed its zenith.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to stone the Pillars when the sun had passed its zenith, to the extent that, as soon as he finished stoning them, he would pray Zuhr (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah and Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) delayed Tawafuz-Ziyarah until nighttime (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) did not walk quickly (Ramal) during the seven circuits of Tawaful-Ifadah (done on 10th day of Dhul-Hijjah) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘The water of Zamzam is for whatever it is drunk for.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“Abbas bin ‘Abdul-Muttalib asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for permission to stay overnight in Makkah on the nights of Mina for the purpose of supplying water to the pilgrims, and he gave him permission (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) did not allow anyone to stay overnight in Makkah apart from ‘Abbas, for the purpose of supplying water to the pilgrims.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“Staying in Abtah is not Sunnah; the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) only stayed there because it was more convenient for his departure.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) set out before daybreak, on the night of departure, from Batha’.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, ‘Umar and ‘Uthman used to stay at Abtah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The people were going in all directions, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘No one should depart until the last thing he does is (Tawaf around) the House.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade a man to depart until the last thing he did was (Tawaf around) the House.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ikrimah:“Hajjaj bin ‘Amr Ansari narrated to me, he said: ‘I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: “Whoever breaks a bone or becomes lame, has exited Ihram, but he must perform another Hajj.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ka’b bin ‘Ujrah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) commanded me, when I was suffering, from live, to shave my head and fast for three days or feed six poor persons. He knew that I did not have an animal I could sacrifice.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) was treated with cupping when he was fasting and in the state of Ihram (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) was treated with cupping when he was in the state of Ihram, because he did not feel well (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to put oil on his head when he was in the state of Ihram, but not oil that was perfumed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stipulated (the penalty of) a man for a hyena killed by a man in Ihram, and he considered it as game.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, concerning an ostrich egg taken by a Muhrim:“Its cost (must be paid as a penalty).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There are five vermin that might be killed whether one is in or outside the sacred precincts: the snake, the speckled crow, the mouse, the vicious dog, and the kite.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There are five animals, for which there is no sin on a person if he kills them” – or he said: “if he kills them when in Ihram – the scorpion, the crow, the kite, the mouse and the vicious dog.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali bin Abu Talib said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) brought some meat from some game when he was in Ihram, and he did not eat it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Talhah bin ‘Ubaidullah that the Prophet (ﷺ) gave him some wild donkey meat, and told him to distribute it among his Companions, who were in Ihram (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Aishah the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) said; “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to send the sacrificial animal from Al-Madinah, and I would twist the garlands for his sacrificial animal, then, he would not (because of that) avoid the things that the one in Ihram avoids.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“On one occasion the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent sheep to the House, and he garlanded them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) marked the sacrificial animal on the right side of the hump and wiped away the blood (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) garlanded, and marked, and sent (the sacrificial animals), but he did not avoid anything that the one in Ihram avoids (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali bin Abu Talib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded me to look after his sacrificial camels, to share out their covers and skins, and not to give the butcher any of it. He said: ‘We will give him (his wages).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that among the sacrificial animals the Prophet (ﷺ) included a (male) camel belonging to Abu Jahl, which had a silver nose ring (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Iyas bin Salamah, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) had a (male) camel among his sacrificial animals (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) bought his sacrificial animal from Qudaid (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man driving a camel and said:“Ride it.” He said: “It is a sacrificial animal.” He said: “Ride it, woe to you!” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Alqamah bin Nadlah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr and ‘Umar died, and the houses in Makkah were still called free. Whoever needed to, lived there, and whoever had no need of them allowed others to live there (without asking for rent).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ayyash bin Abu Rabi’ah (Makhzumi) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘The goodness of this nation will not cease as long as they revere this sanctuary* as it is due. But when they lose that reverence, they will be doomed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
it was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Faith will retreat to Al-Madinah as a snake retreats to its hole.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Whoever among you can die in Al-Madinah, let him do so, for I will bear witness in favor of those who die there.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“O Allah! Ibrahim was Your Friend and Prophet, and You declared Makkah to be sacred through Ibrahim. O Allah! I am Your slave and Prophet, and I declare what is between its two lava fields to be sacred.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever wishes bad upon the people of Al-Madinah, Allah will cause him to melt as salt melts in water.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Miknaf said:“I heard Anas bin Malik say: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Uhud is a mountain which loves us and we love it, and it stands at one of the gates of Paradise. And ‘Aer* stands at one of the gates of Hell.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) and his Companions performed Hajj walking from Al-Madinah to Makkah. He said: ‘Tie your lower garments around your waists,’ and he alternated between walking and jogging.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to sacrifice two horned, black-and-white rams and he would say the Name of Allah and pronounce His greatness. I saw him slaughtering them with his own hand, putting his foot on their sides.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever can afford it, but does not offer a sacrifice, let him not come near our prayer place.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Muhammad bin Sirin said:“I asked Ibn ‘Umar about sacrifices and whether they are obligatory. He said: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and the Muslims after him offered sacrifices, and this is the Sunnah.’” Another chain reports exactly the same (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mikhnaf bin Sulaim said:“We were standing with the Prophet (ﷺ) at ‘Arafat and he said: ‘O people, each family, each year, must offer Udhiyah and ‘Atirah.’ (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sacrificed a horned, defectless ram with a black stomach, black feet and black around its eyes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah Al-Bahili that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best of shrouds is a two piece Najrani garment and the best of sacrifices is a horned ram.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
it was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“We were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on a journey, and the (day of) Al-Adha came. We (sacrificed) one camel on behalf of ten (people) and one cow on behalf of seven.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“We offered sacrifices at Al- Hudaibiyah with the Prophet (ﷺ), a camel on behalf of seven (people) and a cow on behalf of seven.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) slaughtered a cow on behalf of all his wives who had performed ‘Umrah, during the Farewell Pilgrimage.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“Camels became scarce at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), so he commanded them to sacrifice cows.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sacrificed one cow during the Farewell Pilgrimage on behalf of the family of Muhammad (ﷺ) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that a man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said:“I have to offer a sacrifice and I can afford it, but I cannot find (a camel) to buy.” The Prophet (ﷺ) told him to buy seven sheep and slaughter them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Uqbah bin ‘Amir Al-Juhani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave him some sheep, and he distributed them among his Companions to be sacrificed. There remained an ‘Atud.* He mentioned that to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he said:“You sacrifice it yourself.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Umm Bilal bint Hilal narrated from her father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“It is permissible to offer a Jadha’a* among sheep as a sacrifice.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Do not slaughter anything but a Musinnah,* unless there is none available, in which case you can slaughter a Jadha’a among sheep.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade sacrificing the Muqabalah, the Mudabarah, the Sharqa’, the Kharqa’ and the Jad’a’.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to examine the eyes and ears.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Qatadah that he said that he heard Juray bin Kulaib narrate that he heard ‘Ali narrate that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade sacrificing animals with broken horns and ears (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“We bought a ram for sacrifice, then a wolf tore some flesh from its rump and ears. We asked the Prophet (ﷺ) and he told us to offer it as a sacrifice.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sarihah said:“My family started to put pressure on me after I came to know the Sunnah. People used to sacrifice one or two sheep, but now our neighbors call us stingy.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When the ten days (of Dhul-Hijjah) begin, and one of you wants to offer a sacrifice, let him not remove anything from his hair or skin.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever among you sees the new crescent of Dhul-Hijjah and wants to offer a sacrifice, let him not take anything from his hair or nails.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that a man slaughtered on the Day of Sacrifice, (meaning) before the ‘Eid prayer, and the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered him to do it again (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Uwaimir bin Ashqar that he slaughtered before the prayer, and he mentioned that to the Prophet (ﷺ) who said:“Repeat your sacrifice.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) slaughter his sacrifice with his own hand, placing his foot on its side.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Ali bin Abu Talib narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded him to distribute the entire sacrificial camel – its meat, skin and covers – among the poor (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered that a piece from every camel that had been slaughtered be brought and placed in a pot, then they ate from its meat and drank some of the broth (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) only forbade storing the meat of the sacrifices because the people were facing hardship. Then later he permitted that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nubaishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I used to forbid you to store the meat of the sacrifices for more than three days, but (now) eat some and store some.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to slaughter at the prayer place (of the ‘Eid congregation) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Kurz said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: ‘On behalf of a boy, two sheep of equal age and on behalf of a girl one sheep.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to sacrifice two sheep for a boy’s ‘Aqiqah and one sheep for a girl.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salman bin ‘Amir that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say:“For a boy there should be an ‘Aqiqah, so shed blood for him and remove the harm from him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Every boy is mortgaged by his ‘Aqiqah, so slaughter for him on the seventh day, and shave his head, and name him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Yazid bin ‘Abdul-Muzani narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Offer an ‘Aqiqah for the boy, but do not smear his head with blood.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There is no Far’ah and no ‘Atirah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin Abu (‘Umar) ‘Adani that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There is no Far’ah and no ‘Atirah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a man who was dragging a sheep by its ear. He said: ‘Leave its ear alone and hold it by the sides of its neck.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that the blade should be sharpened, and hidden from the animals, and he said: ‘When one of you slaughters, let him do it quickly.’” Another chain reports the same (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah, the Mother of the Believers, that some people said:“O Messenger of Allah, some people bring us meat, and we do not know whether the Name of Allah has been mentioned over it or not.” He said: “Say: Bismillah and eat.’ They were new in Islam (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Muhammad bin Saifi said:“I slaughtered two rabbits with a sharp-edges stone and brought them to the Prophet (ﷺ), and he told me to eat them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that a wolf bit a sheep, and they slaughtered it with a sharp-edged stone, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) allowed them to eat it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from a son of Ka’b bin Malik, from his father, that a woman slaughtered a sheep with a stone, and that was mentioned to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), but he did not see anything wrong with that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi’ bin Khadij said:“We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on a journey, and a camel ran away. A man shot an arrow at it and the Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘It has the inclination to run away like a wild animal. If this happens to any of you, do likewise.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu ‘Ushara’ that his father said:“I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, should slaughtering only be done in the throat or upper chest?’ He said: ‘If you stab it in the thigh that will suffice you.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade mutilating animals.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade tying up animals.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Do not take anything with a soul as a target.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade killing any animal when it is tied up (for use as a target).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the meat and milk of Al-Jallalah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Asm’a bint Abu Bakr said:“We slaughtered a horse and ate its meat during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Zubair that he heard Jabir bin ‘Abdullah say:“At the time of Khaibar we ate horses and wild donkeys.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Miqdam bin Ma’dikarib Al-Kindi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade several things, until he mentioned (the meat of) domesticated donkeys (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara’ bin ‘Azib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to throw away the meat of domesticated donkeys, raw or cooked, then he did not say anything to us about it after that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the caller of the Prophet (ﷺ) cried out:“Allah and His Messenger forbid you to eat the flesh of domesticated donkeys, for it is filthy.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ata’ narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“We used to eat the meat of horses.” I said: “And mules?” He said: “No.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Khalid bin Walid said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the flesh of horses, mules and donkeys.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“We asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the fetus. He said: ‘Eat it if you wish, for it is considered legally slaughtered with the slaughtering of its mother.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Mughaffal that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that dogs be killed, then he said:“What do they use dogs for?” Then he permitted them to keep hunting dogs (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Mughaffal that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that dogs be killed, then he said:“What do they use dogs for?” Then he permitted them to keep farming dogs and dogs of ‘Ein. Bundar said: “The ‘Ein refers to the walls of Al-Madinah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that dogs be killed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raising his voice and commanding that dogs be killed, and dogs were killed, except for hunting dogs or dogs kept for herding livestock.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever keeps a dog, one Qirat will be deducted from him (good) deeds every day, except a dog for farming or herding livestock.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sufyan bin Abu Zuhair said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: ‘Whoever keeps a dog that he does not need for farming or herding, one Qirat will be deducted from his (good) deeds each day.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“We were forbidden (to eat) the game caught by their dogs and birds – meaning the Zoroastrians.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:“I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the all-black dog and he said: ‘(It is) a devil.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Tha’labah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Eat what your bow brings you.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Adi bin Hatim said:“I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, we are people who shoot (arrows).’ He said: ‘If you shoot and pierce (the game), then eat what you pierced.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Adi bin Hatim said:“I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, what if I shoot the game but it vanishes at night?’ He said: ‘If you find your arrow in it and you do not find anything else, then eat it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Adi bin Hatim said:“I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about hunting with Mi’rad. He said: ‘Whatever it struck with its sharp edge, then eat it, but what is struck with its side is something that has been killed by a violent blow.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Adi bit Hatim said:“I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about Mi’rad. He said: ‘Do not eat unless you pierce (the game).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whatever is cut from an animal hen it is still alive, what is cut from it is Maitah (dead meat).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Tamim Dari said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘At the end of time there will be people who will cut off camels’ humps and sheep’s tails. But what is cut from a living animal is dead.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Two kinds of dead meat have been permitted to us: fish and locusts.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Salman said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about locusts. He said: ‘(They are) the most numerous troop of Allah. I neither eat them nor forbid them.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu (Sa’eed) Baqqal heard Anas bin Malik say:“The wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) used to give each other gifts of locusts on trays.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“We went out with the Prophet (ﷺ) for Hajj or ‘Umrah, and we encountered a swarm of locusts or a type of locust. We started hitting them with out whips and sandals. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘Eat them for they are the game of the sea.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade killing shrikes*, frogs, ants and hoopoes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade killing four kinds of animals: Ants, bees, hoopoes and shrikes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Mughaffal said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade throwing small pebbles and said: ‘They do not kill any game or hurt the enemy, but they can break a tooth or put out an eye.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Sharik that the Prophet (ﷺ) told her to kill house lizards (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said concerning house lizards:“Vermin.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Tha’labah Al-Khushani that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade eating any predatory animal that has fangs (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Eating any predatory animal that has fangs is unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“On the Day of Khaibar, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade eating any predatory animal that has fangs and any bird that has talons.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Khuzaimah bin Jaz’ said:“I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), what do you say about hyenas?’ He said: ‘Who eats hyenas?’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I do not forbid it,” meaning mastigure (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:We passed by Marr Az-Zahran and startled a rabbit. They chased it but got tired, so I chased it and caught it. I brought it to Abu Talhah who slaughtered it and sent its rump and thigh to the Prophet (ﷺ), who accepted it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
it was narrated from Muhammad bin Safwan that he passed by the Prophet (ﷺ) with two rabbits hanging down. He said:“O Messenger of Allah, I caught these two rabbits but I cannot find any iron* with which to slaughter them with Marwah** and eat them?” He said: “Eat.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mughirah bin Abu Burdah, who was of the tribe of Banu ‘Abd-Dar, narrated that he heard Abu Hurairah say:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The water of the sea is a means of purification and its dead meat is permissible.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whatever the sea throws out or is left behind when the tide ebbs, eat it, but whatever rises to its surface, do not eat it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“Who eats crows? The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) called them vermin, By Allah, they are not from among the good and permissible things.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Snakes are vermin, scorpions are vermin, mice are vermin and crows are vermin.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade eating cats and he forbade their price.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar used to say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Spread (the greeting og) Salam, offer food (to the needy), and be brothers as Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, has honored you.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr that a man asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ):“O Messenger of Allah, which (aspect) of Islam is the best?” He said: “Offering food (to the needy) and greeting with Salam those whom you know and those whom you do not know.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The food of one person is sufficient for two, the food of two is sufficient for four, and the food for four is sufficient for eight.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Umar bin Khattab that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The food of one is sufficient for two, and the food of two is sufficient for three or four, and the food of four is sufficient for five or six.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The believer eats with one intestine and the disbeliever eats with seven intestines.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The disbeliever eats with seven intestines and the believer eats with one intestine.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The believer eats with one intestine and the disbeliever eats with seven intestines.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hazim that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never criticized any food. If it pleased him, he would eat it and if it did not he would leave it.” Another chain reports the same (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Kathir bin Sulaim narrated that he heard Anas bin Malik say:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever would like Allah to increase the goodness of his house, should perform ablution (wash hands) when his breakfast is brought to him and when it is taken away.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out to toilet, then food was brought. A man said:“O Messenger of Allah, are you not going to perform ablution?” He said: ‘Am I going to pray?’ (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Juhaifah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I do not eat while reclining.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdullah bin Busr said:“I gave the Prophet (ﷺ) a gift of a sheep, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat on his knees to eat. A Bedouin said: ‘What is this sitting?’ He said: ‘Allah has made me a humble and generous slave (of Allah) and has not made me arrogant and stubborn.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Umar bin Abu Salamah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me, when I was eating: ‘Say the Name of Allah, the Glorified and Exalted.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Wahb bin Kaisan that he heard ‘Umar bin Abu Salamah say:“I was a boy in the care of the Prophet (ﷺ) and my hand used to wander all over the plate. He said to me: ‘O boy! Say the Name of Allah, eat with your right hand, and eat from what is in front of you.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not eat with your left hand, for Satan eats with his left hand.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When one of you eats food, let him not wipe his hand until he has licked it or has someone else to lick it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“None of you should wipe his hand until he has licked it, for he does not know where the blessing if in his food.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm ‘Asim said:“Nubaishah, the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), entered upon us when we were eating from a bowl. He said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Whoever eats from a bowl and cleans it, the bowl will pray for forgiveness for him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When food is served, eat from that which is in front of you, and do not take from what is in front of your companion.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdullah bin Busr narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was brought a bowl (of food). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Eat from the sides and leave the top, so that it may be blessed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Wathilah bin Asqa’ Al-Laithi said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took hold of the top of the Tharid and said: ‘Eat in the Name of Allah from its sides and leave the top, for the blessing comes from its top.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When food is served, take from the sides and leave the middle, for the blessing descends in the middle.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If a morsel falls from the hand of anyone of you, let him wipe off whatever dirt that is on it and eat it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Abdur-Rahman that he heard Anas bin Malik say:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The superiority of ‘Aishah over other women is like the superiority of Tharid over all other foods.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“During the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) we often did not find anything to eat, and if we did, we did not have handkerchiefs, except our hands, arms and feet. Then we would pray without performing ablution.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) ate, he would say: Al-hamdu lillahil-ladhi at’amana wa saqana wa ja’alana Muslimin (Praise is to Allah Who has fed us, given us to drink, and made us Muslims).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Salim bin ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar said:“I heard my father say: ‘I heard ‘Umar bin Khattab say: “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Eat together and do not eat separately, for the blessing is in being together.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never blew onto his food or drink, and he did not breathe into the vessel.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Isma’il bin Abu Khalid narrated from his father:“I heard Abu Hurairah say: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “When the servant of anyone of you brings him his food, let him make him sit by his side and eat with him, and if he refuses then let him give him some.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When the servant of anyone of you brings his food, let him make him sit down with him or give him some of it, for he is the one who put up with its heat and smoke.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Qatadah, that Anas bin Malik said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) never ate from a dish or from an individual plate.” He said: “From where did he eat?” He said: “From the dining sheet.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) eat from a dish until he died.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade standing up before the food had been cleared away (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Husain bin ‘Ali that his mother, Fatimah the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘A man has no one to blame but himself, if he goes to bed with a smell emanating from his hand.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If anyone of you goes to bed with a smell emanating from his hand, and he does not wash his hand, and something happens to him, he should not blame anyone but himself.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Asma’ bint Yazid said:“Some food was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and it was offered to us. We said: ‘We do not have any appetite for it.’ He said: ‘Do not combine hunger and lies.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik – a man from the tribe of Banu ‘Abdul-Ashhal – said:* “I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was eating breakfast and he said: ‘Come and eat.’ I said: ‘I am fasting. Alas! Would that I had eaten of the food of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Harith bin Jaz’ Az-Zubaidi said:“At the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) we used to eat bread and meat in the mosque.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“At the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) we used to eat while walking, and drink while standing up.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) like gourd.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hakin bin Jabr that his father said:“I entered upon the Prophet (ﷺ) in his house, and he had some of this gourd. I said: ‘What is this?’ He said: ‘This is Qar’; it is Dubba’. We augment our food with it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Darda’ that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best food of the people of this world and the people of Paradise is meat.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Darda’ said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was never invited to eat meat but he would respond, and he was never offered meat as a gift but he would accept it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“One day some meat was brought to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and the foreleg was offered to him which he liked, so he bit it with his front teeth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdullah bin Ja’far told Ibn Zubair, who had slaughtered a camel for them, that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he (‘Abdullah) said:“Some people were bringing meat to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he said: ‘The best meat is the meat of the back.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I do not know of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ever seeing a roasted sheep* until he met Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“No leftovers of roast meat* were ever cleared from in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and no carpet was ever carried with him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Harith bin Jaz’ Az-Zubaidi said:“We ate food with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in the mosque, meat that had been roasted. Then we wiped our hands on the pebbles and got up to perform prayer without performing ablution.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Mas`ud said:“A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and his voice trembled out of awe as he spoke to him. The Prophet said to him, “Be calm, for I am not a king. Verily, I am only the son of a woman who ate dried meat.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“We used to store trotters and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would eat them fifteen days after the sacrifice.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Two kinds of dead meat and two kinds of blood have been permitted to us. The two kinds of dead meat are fish and locusts, and the two kinds of blood are the liver and spleen.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘The best of your seasonings is salt.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“What a blessed condiment vinegar is.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“What a blessed condiment vinegar is.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Season (your food) with olive oil and anoint yourselves with it, for it comes from a blessed tree.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdullah bin Sa’eed narrated that his grandfather said:“I heard Abu Hurairah say: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Eat (olive) oil and anoint yourselves with it, for it is blessed.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
I heard ‘Aishah say:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would say, when milk was brought to him: ‘A blessing,’ or ‘Two blessings.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
(It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah 9saw) used to like sweets and honey.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“My mother was trying to fatten me up when she wanted to send me to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (when she got married), but nothing worked until I ate cucumbers with dates; then I grew plump like the best kind of plump.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated ‘Abdullah bin Ja’far said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) eating cucumbers with dates.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sahl bin Sa’d said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to eat dates with melon.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A house in which there are no dates, its people will go hungry.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubaidullah bin Abu Rafi’, from his grandmother Salma, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“A house in which there are no dates is like a house in which there is no food.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Eat unripe dates with ripe one and eat old dates with new ones, for Satan gets angry and says: ‘The son of Adam will survive so long as he eats old dates with new ones.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade eating two dates at once unless he asks his companions permission to do so.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sa’d, the freed slave of Abu Bakr – and Sa’d used to serve the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he liked this Hadith – that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade eating two dates at once (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he was brought some old dates; he started to inspect them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Ayman that she sifted some flour and made a loaf of bread for the Prophet (ﷺ). He said:“What is this?” She said: “It is food that we make in our land, and I wanted to make a loaf of it for you. He said: “Fold it onto itself and knead it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never saw a thin loaf made from well-sifted flour with his own eyes, until he met Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“By the One in Whose Hand is my soul, the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) never ate his fill of wheat bread for three days in a row, until Allah took his soul.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
it was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The family of Muhammad (ﷺ) never ate their fill of wheat bread for three nights in a row, from the time they came to Al-Madinah until he passed away.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“When the Prophet (ﷺ) passed away, there was nothing in my house that any living soul could eat, except a little bit of barley on a shelf of mine. I ate it for a long time, then I weighed it and soon it was all gone.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The family of Muhammad (ﷺ) never ate their fill of barley bread until he was taken (i.e. died).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to spend many nights in a row hungry and his family could find no supper, and usually their bread was barley bread.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hasan that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wore wool, and his shows were sandals.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“A man burped in the presence of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said: ‘Withhold your burps from us! For the most hungry of you on the Day of Resurrection will be those who most ate their fill in this world.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“It is extravagance to eat everything you want.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not leave dinner, even if it is only a handful of dates, because abandoning it makes one weak.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
(It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah 9saw) said:“Goodness comes more quickly to a house where there are frequent guests than a knife to camel’s hump.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Goodness comes more quickly to a house where food is eaten than a knife to a camel’s hump.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“It is the Sunnah for a man to go out with his guest to the door of the house.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“I made some food and called the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (to come and eat). He came and saw some images in the house, so he went back.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When you make broth, add more water and give some to your neighbor.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Ayyub said:“I made some food for the Prophet (ﷺ) in which there were some vegetables. He did not eat it, and he said: ‘I do not like to annoy my companion.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that a group of people came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he noticed the smell of leeks coming from them. He said:“Did I not forbid you to eat these vegetables? For the angels are offended by that which offends people.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Uqbah bin ‘Amir Al-Juhani said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to his Companions: ‘Do not eat onions,’ then he said in a low voice: ‘Raw.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Talhah said:”I entered upon the Prophet (ﷺ) and in his hand was some quince. He said: ‘Take it, O Talhah, for it soothes the heart.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade a man from eating while lying down on his face.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Darda’ said:‘My close friend (ﷺ) advised me: ‘Do not drink wine, for it is the key to all evils.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Ubadah bin Samit said:“I heard Khabbab bin Arat narrating that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Beware of wine! For its sins overwhelm other sins, just as the grapevine overwhelms other trees.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever drinks wine in this world, he will not drink it in the Hereafter, unless he repents.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever drinks wine in this world, he will not drink it in the Hereafter.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The one who is addicted to wine is like one who worships idols.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Darda’ that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“No one who is addicted to wine will enter Paradise.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Wine comes from these two trees: The date palm and the grapevine.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nu’man bin Bashir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“From wheat comes wine, from barley comes wine, from raisins comes wine, from dates comes wine and from honey comes wine.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“When the Verses at the end of Surat Al-Baqarah concerning usury were revealed, the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) went out and forbade dealing in wine.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:Umar heard that Samurah had sold some wine, and he said: “May Allah ruin Samurah! Does he not know that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘May Allah curse the Jews, for animal fat was forbidden to them, so they melted it down and sold it.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah Al-Bahili that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Night and day will not cease until a group among my nation drinks wine, calling it by some other name.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubadah bin Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“People among my nation will drink wine, under some other name that they will give it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah, narrating it from the Prophet (ﷺ):“Every drink that causes intoxication is unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Salim bin ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar narrated that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Every intoxicant is unlawful.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Mas’ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every intoxicant is unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu’awiyah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Every intoxicant is unlawful for every believer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every intoxicant is Khamr (wine) and every Khamr is unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every intoxicant is unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every intoxicant is unlawful and whatever causes intoxication in large amounts, a small amount of it is (also) unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whatever causes intoxication in large amounts, a small amount of it is (also) unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whatever causes intoxication in large amounts a small amount of it is (also) unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade making Nabidh* with dates and raisins together, or with unripe dates and fresh dates together.” Another chain reports the same (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Do not make Nabidh with dried dates and unripe dates together, make Nabidh with each of them on its own.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Abu Qatadah, from his father, that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“Do not combine fresh dates and unripe dates, or raisins and dates; rather make Nabidh with each one of them on its own.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“Nabidh would be made for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he would drink it on the same day, or the next day, or the third day, and if there was any left he would throw it away or give orders that it was to be thrown away.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“Nabidh would be made for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in a vessel of stone.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade making Nabidh in Naqir, Muzaffat, Dubba’, and Hantamah. And he said: ‘Every intoxicant is unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade making Nabidh in Muzaffat or a gourd.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade drinking from Hantam, Dubba’ and Naqir (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdur-Rahman bin Ya’mar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade Dubba’ and Hantam.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah from his father that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“I used to forbid you to use certain vessels, but now make Nabidh in them, but avoid all intoxicants.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Mas’ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I used to forbid you from making Nabidh in certain vessels, but a vessel does not make something unlawful. All intoxicants are unlawful.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“Is anyone of you incapable of taking a water skin from the skin of her sacrifice each year?” Then she said: “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade making Nabidh in (earthenware) jars, and in such and such, and such and such, except for vinegar.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade making Nabidh in (earthenware) jars.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“Some Nabidh from an (earthenware) jar was brought to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and it was bubbling. He said: ‘Throw this against the wall, for this is the drink of one who does not believe in Allah and the Last Day.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to cover our vessels, tie up our water skins and turn over our vessels.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I used to prepare three covered vessels for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at night: A vessel for his water for purification, a vessel for his tooth stick and a vessel for his drink.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The one who drinks from a silver vessel is swallowing Hell-fire into his belly.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade drinking from vessels of gold and silver. He said: “They are for them in this world and for you in the Hereafter.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever drinks from a silver vessel, it is as if he is swallowing Hell-fire into his belly.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that he used to drink from a vessel in three draughts, and Anas said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to drink from a vessel in three draughts (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) drank, and took two breaths while doing so (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade tipping up water skins in order to drink from their mouths.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade tipping up water skins. After the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had forbidden that, a man got up at night and tipped up a water skin, and a snake fell out of it onto him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade drinking (directly) from the mouth of a water skin.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade drinking (directly) from the mouth of a water skin.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Asim narrated from Sha’bi, from Ibn ‘Abbas who said:“I drew water from Zamzam for the Prophet (ﷺ) and he drank standing up.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade drinking while standing up (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was brought some milk mixed with water. On his right there was a Bedouin and on his left was Abu Bakr. He drank some, then he gave it to the Bedouin and said:“Pass it around to the right.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you drinks, let him not breathe into the vessel. If he wants to continue drinking, let him move the vessel away (in order to breathe) then bring it back, if he wants.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade breathing into the vessel.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade blowing into the vessel.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not blow into his drinks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“We passed by a pond and we started to lap up water from it. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Do not lap up the water, rather wash your hands then drink from them, for there is no better vessel than the hand.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The oen who serves water to others should be the last one to drink from it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had a glass cup from which he would drink.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Allah does not send down any disease, but He also sends down the cure for it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah does not send down any disease, but He also sends down the cure.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) went to visit a sick person, and said: ‘Do you want anything? Do you want cake?’ He said: ‘Yes.’ So they looked for some for him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Uqbah bin ‘Amir Al-Juhani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not force your sick ones to eat or drink. Allah will feed them and give them to drink.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“If any of his family members became ill, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would order that some broth be made. And he would say: ‘It consoles the grieving heart and cleanses the ailing heart, as anyone of you cleanses her face of dirt with water.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“In black seed there is healing for every disease, except the Sam.” "Sam means death. And black seed is Shuwniz (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Uthman bin ‘Abdul-Malik said:“I heard Salim bin ‘Abdullah narrating from his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘You should eat this black seed, for in it there is healing from every disease, except the Sam (death).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever eats honey three mornings each month, will not suffer any serious calamity.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin ‘Abdullah said:“Some honey was given as a gift to the Prophet (ﷺ), and he shared among us spoonful by spoonful. I took my spoonful then I said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, can I have another?’ He said: ‘Yes.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“You should take the two that bring healing: Honey and the Qur’an.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Amr bin Huraith said:“I heard Sa’eed bin Zaid bin ‘Amr bin Nufail narrating from the Prophet (ﷺ) that: ‘Truffles are a type of manna that Allah sent down to the Children of Israel, and their water is a healing for eye (diseases).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Rafi’ bin ‘Amr Al-Muzani said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: “Ajwah and the rock* are from Paradise.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade treating illness with foul things (Khabith), meaning poison.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever drinks poison and kills himself, will be sipping it in the fire of Hell forever and ever.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: ‘The cure for sciatica is the fat from the tail of a Bedouin sheep (or wild sheep), which should be melted and divided into three parts, one part to be taken each day on an empty stomach.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever gives medical treatment, with no prior knowledge of medicine, is responsible (for any harm done).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Zaid bin Arqam said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prescribed Wars (memecyclon tinctorium), Indian aloeswood and olive oil for pleurisy, to be administered through the side of the mouth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Umm Qais bint Mihsan said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘You should use Indian aloeswood for it contains seven cures, including (a cure for) pleurisy.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“Mention of fever was made in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and a man cursed it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘Do not curse it, for it erases sin as fire removes filth from iron.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Fever is from the heat of the Hell-fire, so cool it down with water.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Intense fever is from the heat of Hell-fire, so cool it down with water.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi’ bin Khadij said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: ‘Fever is from the heat of the Hell-fire, so cool it down with water.’ He entered upon a son of ‘Ammar and said: ‘Take away the harm, O Lord of mankind, O God of mankind.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Asma’ bint Abu Bakr that a woman suffering from fever would be brought to her, and she would call for water and pour it onto the neck of her garment. She said:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: “Cool it down with water,” and he said: “It is from the heat of Hell-fire.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Fever is one of the bellows of Hell, so avert it from yourselves with cold water.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If there is any good in any of the remedies you use, it is in cupping.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“On the night on which I was taken on the Night Journey (Isra’), I did not pass by any group of angels but all of them said to me: ‘O Muhammad, you should use cupping.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘What a good slave is the cupper. He takes away the blood, reduces pressure on the spine, and improves the eyesight.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘On the night on which I was taken on the Night Journey (Isra’), I did not pass by any group (of angels) but they said to me: “O Muhammad, tell your nation to use cupping.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that Umm Salamah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for permission to be cupped, and the Prophet (ﷺ) told Abu Taibah to cup her (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abdur-Rahman Al-A’raj said:“I heard ‘Abdullah bin Buhainah say: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was cupped in Lahyi Jamal,* in the middle of his head, while he was a Muhrim.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“Jibra’il came down to the Prophet (ﷺ) with (the recommendation of) cupping in the two veins at the side of the neck and the base of the neck.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped in the two veins at theside of the neck and the base of the neck (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Kabshah Al-Anmari that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to be cupped on his head and between his shoulders, and he said:“Whoever lets blood from these places, it does not matter if he does not seek treatment for anything else.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) fell from his horse onto the truck of a palm tree and dislocated his foot. (One of the narrators) Waki’ said:“Meaning that the Prophet (ﷺ) was cupped because of that for bruising.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever wants to be cupped, let him seek out the seventeenth, nineteenth or twenty-first (of the month); and let none of you allow his blood to rage so that it kills him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aqqar bin Al-Mughirah from his father that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever seeks treatment by cauterization, or with Ruqyah, then he had absolved himself of reliance upon Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Imran bin Husain said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade cauterization. I had myself cauterized and I have not prospered or succeeded.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“Healing is in three things: A drink of honey, the glass of the cupper, and cauterizing with fire, but I forbid my nation to use cauterization.” And he attributed it to the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“Ubayy bin Ka’b fell sick, and the Prophet (ﷺ) sent a doctor to him who cauterized him on his medical arm vein.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cauterized Sa’d bin Mu’adh on his medial arm vein, twice (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Salim bin ‘Abdullah narrated that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘You should use antimony, for it improves the eyesight and makes the hair (eyelashes) grow.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘You should use antimony when you go to sleep, for it improves the eyesight and makes the hair (eyelashes) grow.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best of your kohl is antimony, for it improves the eyesight and makes the hair (eyelashes) grow.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever applies kohl, let him do it an odd number of times. Whoever does that has done well, and whoever does not, it does not matter.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) had a kohl container from which he would apply kohl three times, to each eye.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ali that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best remedy is the Qur’an.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Salma Umm Rafi’, the freed slave woman of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) did not suffer any injury or thorn- prick but he would apply henna to it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that some people from ‘Urainah came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) but they were averse to the climate of Al- Madinah. He (ﷺ) said:“Why don’t you go out to a flock of camels of ours, and drink their milk and urine.” And they did that (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Sa’eed narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“On one of the wings of a fly there is a poison and on the other is the cure. If it falls into the food, then dip it into it, for it puts the poison first and holds back the cure.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If a fly falls into your drink, dip it into it then throw it away, for on one of its wings is a disease and on the other is a cure.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amir bin Rabi’ah, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The evil eye is real.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘The evil eye is real.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Seek refuge with Allah, for the evil eye is real.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ubaid bin Rifa’ah Az-Zuraqi said:“Asma’ said: ‘O Messenger of Allah! The children of Ja’far have been afflicted by the evil eye, shall I recite Ruqyah* for them?’ He said: ‘Yes, for if anything were to overtake the Divine decree it would be the evil eye.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to seek refuge from the evil eye of the jinn and of mankind. When the Mu’awwidhatain* were revealed, he started to recite them and stopped reciting anything else.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) commanded her to recite Ruqyah to treat the evil eye (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Buraidah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no Ruqyah except for the evil eye or from the sting of a scorpion.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It as narrated from Abu Bakr bin Muhammad that Khalidah bint Anas, the mother of Banu Hazm As-Sa’idiyyah, came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and recited a Ruqyah to him, and he told her to use it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) allowed Ruqyah for the scorpion’s sting, the evil eye, and Namlah (sores or small pustules ulcers or sores on a person’s sides) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) allowed Ruqyah for snakebites and scorpion stings.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amr bin Hazm said:“I recited the Ruqyah for snakebite to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), or it was recited to him, and he commanded that it be used.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to blow when performing Ruqyah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah:“Whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) fell ill, he would recite the Mu’awwidhat and blow, and when his pain grew worse, I would recite over him and wipe his hand over him, hoping for its blessing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Imran bin Husain that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man with a brass ring on his hand. He said:“What is this ring?” He said: “It is for Wahinah.”* He said: “Take it off, for it will only increase you in weakness.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ali that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best remedy is the Qur’an.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) enjoined killing Dhit-Tufytain* for it takes away the sight and causes miscarriage.” *That means a wicked snake (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
it was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Kill snakes, and kill Dhit-Tufytain* and the Abtar**, for they take away the sight and cause miscarriage.” *A snake that has two white stripes on its back. **A snake with a short or mutilated tail (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like good signs and hate bad omens.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) said: ‘There is no ‘Adwa* and no omen, but I like Al-Fa’l As-Salih.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The omen is polytheistic deed and anyone of us may think he sees an omen but Allah will dispel it by means of relying upon Him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no ‘Adwa, no omen, no Hamah and no Safar.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A man with sick camels should not let them graze or drink alongside healthy ones.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took the hand of a leper and made him eat with him, and said:“Eat, with trust in Allah and reliance upon Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Do not keep looking at those who have leprosy.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from a man from the family of Sharid whose name was ‘Amr, that his father said:“There was a leper among the delegation of Thaqif. The Prophet (ﷺ) sent word to him: ‘Go back, for we have accepted your oath of allegiance.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that Umm Salamah said:“O Messenger of Allah, every year you are still suffering pain because of the poisoned meat that you ate.” He said: “Nothing that happens to me, but it was decreed for me when Adam was still at the stage of being clay.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed in a Khamisah* that had markings on it. Then he said: ‘These markings distracted me. Take it to Abu Jahm and bring me an Anbijaniyyah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Burdah said:“I entered upon ‘Aishah and she brought out to me a thick waist wrap of the type made in Yemen, and one of these cloaks that are called Mulabbadah,* and she swore to me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had passed away in them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ubadah bin Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed in a Shamlah tied with a knot (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I was with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and over him was a Najrani upper wrap with a thick border.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) insulting anyone, and no garment was ever folded up for him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wore wool and sandals, and he wore coarse, rough garments.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dress. Those two types of dress are Ishtimalus- Samma’* and Ihtiba’ in a single garment, with no part of it upon his private part (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dress:Ishtimalus-Samma’ and Ihtiba’, exposing one’s private part to the sky (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade two kinds of dress: Ishtimalus-Samma’ and Ihtiba’ in one garment, when you are exposing your private part to the sky.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Burdah that his father said to him:“O my son, if only you could have seen us when we were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), when rain fell on us; you would have thought that we smelled like sheep.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ubadah bin Samit said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out to us one day, wearing a Roman cloak of wool with narrow sleeves. He led us in prayer wearing that, and nothing else.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salman Farisi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed ablution, then he turned his woolen cloak that he was wearing inside out and wiped his face with it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) marking sheep on their ears, and I saw him wearing a cloak around his wrist.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best of your garments are the white ones, so wear them and shroud your dead in them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundab that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Wear white garments, for they are purer and better.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Darda’ that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best of that in which you visit Allah in your graves and your mosque is white (garments).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever lets his garment drag out of pride, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that a young man of Quriash passed by Abu Hurairah with his cloak dragging. He said:“O my nephew! I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying ‘Whoever let his garment drag out of pride, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mughirah bin Shu’bah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“O Sufyan bin Sahl, do not let your garment hang, for Allah does not like those who let their garments hang below the ankles.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:There was no garment more beloved to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) than the shirt.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Hanging down may apply to the waist wrap, shirt or turban. Whoever lets any of these drag out of pride, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to wear a shirt that was short in the sleeves and length.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu’awiyah bin Qurrah narrated that his father said:“I came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and gave him my pledge, and the buttons of his shirt were undone.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Suwaid bin Qais said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us and haggled with us over the price of trousers.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about how long a woman’s hem should hang down. He said: ‘A hand span.’ I said: ‘But then (her legs and feet) will be uncovered.’ He said: ‘Then a forearm’s length, but no more than that.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar:“The wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) were allowed to let their hems hang down, so they used to come to us and we would measure one forearms length for them with a reed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Fatimah, or to Umm Salamah:“Let your hem down one forearm’s length.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said, concerning how long a woman’s hem should hang down:“A hand span.” ‘Aishah said: “This may show her calves.” He said: “Then a forearm’s length.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ja’far bin ‘Amr bin Huraith that his father said:“I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering a sermon on the pulpit, wearing a black turban.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Makkah wearing a black turban (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) entered (Makkah), on the Day of the Conquest of Makkah, wearing a black turban (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Ja’far bin ‘Amr bin Huraith narrated that his father said:“It is as if I can see the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), wearing a black turban, with the ends hanging down his shoulders.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever wears silk in this world will not wear it in the Hereafter.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara’ bin ‘Azib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade brocade, silk, and embroidered brocade.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade wearing silk and gold. He said: ‘They are for them in this world and for us in the Hereafter.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) granted a concession to Zubair bin ‘Awwam and ‘Abdur-Rahman bin ‘Auf, allowing them to wear silk shirts, because of a rash they were suffering from (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Umar that he used to forbid silk and brocade, except for what was like this:Then he gestured with his finger, then a second, and a third, and a fourth (i.e., the width of four fingers), and he said: “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to forbid it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Ali bin Abu Talib said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took hold of some silk in his left hand and some gold in his right, then he raised his hands and said: ‘These two are forbidden for the males of my nation, and permitted to the females.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out to us, and in one of his hands was a garment of silk and in the other was some gold. He said: ‘These are forbidden to the males of my nation and permitted to the females.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“I saw Zainab the daughter of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wearing a shirt of Siyara’ silk (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara’ said:“I never saw anyone more handsome then the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), with his hair combed, wearing a red two-piece suit.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade Al-Mufaddam.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin Hunain said:“I heard ‘Ali say: ‘The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me – and I do not say that he forbade you – from wearing clothes dyed with safflower.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Qais bin Sa’d said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) came to us and we gave him some water with which to cool down. He bathed, then I brought him a yellow blanket, and I saw the traces of Wars (the yellow dye) on the folds of his stomach.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Amr bin Shu’aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Eat and drink, give charity and wear clothes, as long as that does not involve any extravagance or vanity.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever wears a garment of pride and vanity, Allah will clothe him, on the Day of Resurrection, in a garment of humiliation.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever wears a garment of pride and vanity in this world, Allah will clothe him in a garment of humiliation on the Day of Resurrection, then set it ablaze.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever wears a garment of pride and vanity, Allah will turn away from him until he takes it off.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Abbas said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Any skin that has been tanned has been purified.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Salman said:“One of the Mothers of the Believers had a sheep that died. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed by it and said: ‘It would not have harmed its owners if they had made use of its hide.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that use should be made of the skins of dead animals, if they were tanned.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Ukaym said:“There came to us a letter from the Prophet (ﷺ) (saying): ‘No not make use of the untanned skin and sinew of dead animals.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah bin ‘Abbas said:“The sandals of the Prophet (ﷺ) had two thongs doubled around their straps.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“The sandals of the Prophet (ﷺ) had two thongs.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When anyone of you puts on his sandals, let him start with the right, and when he takes them off, let him start with the left.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said; “None of you should walk in one sandal or in one leather sock. Let him take them both off or walk in both of them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade putting on sandals whilst standing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade putting on sandals whilst standing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah, from his father, that an-Najashi sent a pair of pure black Khuff as a gift to the Prophet (ﷺ) of, which he wore (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah attributed to the Prophet (ﷺ):“The Jews and the Christians do not dye (their hair), so differ from them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best things with which you change gray hair are henna and Katam.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Uthman bin Mawhab said:“I entered upon Umm Salamah and she brought out for me a hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), which was dyed with henna and Katam.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that he said:“Abu Quhaifah was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) on the Day of the Conquest (of Makkah), and his head was all white. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Take him to some of his womenfolk and let them change this, but avoid black.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Suhaib Al-Khair said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The best thing with which you can dye your hair is this black (dye). It makes your women desire you and creates fear in the hearts of your enemies.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sa’eed bin Abu Sa’eed that ‘Ubaid bin Juraij asked Ibn ‘Umar:“I see that you dye your beard yellow with Wars.” Ibn ‘Umar said: “As for my dyeing of my beard yellow with Wars, I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) dyeing his beard yellow.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Juhaifah said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and this part of his hair was white” – meaning the tuft of hair between the lower lip and the chin (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Humaid said:“Anas bin Malik was asked: ‘Did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) dye his hair?’ He said: ‘He did not have any white hair apart from approximately seventeen or twenty hairs at the front of his beard.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The white hair of the Prophet (ﷺ) numbered approximately twenty.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mujahid said:“Umm Hani said: ‘When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered Makkah he had four braids.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I used to part the hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) behind his crown, and let his forelock hang down.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:“The hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was wavy, and (hung down) between his ears and his shoulders.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had hair that came between his earlobes and his shoulders.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Wa’il bin Hujr said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) saw me when I had long hair. He said: ‘Bad news, bad news!’ So I went away and cut it short. Then the Prophet (ﷺ) saw me and said: ‘I did not mean you, but this is better.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi’ that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade Qaza’.” He (Nafi’) said: “What is Qaza’?” He said: “It means shaving part of a child’s head and leaving another part.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade Qaza’.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wore a ring of silver, then he had engraved on it (the words) ‘Muhammad Rasul Allah’ (Muhammad the Messenger of Allah). And he said: ‘No one should have his ring engraved like this ring of mine.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had a ring made for him, and he said: ‘I have had a ring made for me and had it engraved, and no one should make a ring with similar engraving.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wore a ring of silver, in which was an Ethiopian gemstone and the inscription:‘Muhammad Rasul Allah’ (Muhammad the Messenger of Allah).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade wearing gold rings.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade gold rings.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to wear (his ring) with the stone nearest his palm (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wore a silver ring with an Ethiopian gemstone, and he used to ear the stone in towards his palm (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Ja’far that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to wear a ring on his right hand (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me to wear a ring on this and on this,” meaning the little finger and the thumb (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Talhah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or an image.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Ali bin Abu Talib that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or an image.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that a woman came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and told him that her husband was away on some military campaign. She asked him for permission to make an image of a palm tree in her house, and he did not let her, or he forbade her (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I covered a small room closet of mine, meaning, from the inside, with a curtain on which there were images. When the Prophet (ﷺ) came, he tore it down, so I made two pillows from it, and I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) reclining on one of them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade rings of gold and Al-Mitharah,”* meaning the red ones (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amir Al-Hajri said:“I heard Abu Raihanah, the Companion of the Prophet (ﷺ) say: ‘The Prophet (ﷺ) used to forbid riding on leopard skins.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Mu’awiyah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to forbid riding on leopard skins.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah, may Allah be pleased with them, narrated that:Allah's Messenger said: "No child can compensate his father unless he finds a slave, and buys him and sets him free (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Miqdam bin Ma'dikarib, may Allah be pleased with them, narrated that:Allah's Messenger said: "Allah enjoins you to treat your mother's kindly"-three times- "Allah enjoins you to treat your fathers kindly, Allah enjoins you to treat the closest and the next closest kindly (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Umamah narrated that a man said that:"O Allah's Messenger(ﷺ), what are the rights of parents over their child?" He said:"They are your Paradise and your Hell." (Daif) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Darda' heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say that:"The father is the middle door of Paradise (i.e. the best way to Paradise), so it is up to you whether you take advantage of it or not (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Aisha, said:"Some Bedouin people came to the Prophet(ﷺ) and said: 'Do you kiss your children?' He said: 'Yes'. He said: 'But we, by Allah, never kiss (our children)'. The Prophet(ﷺ) said: 'What can I do if Allah has taken away mercy from you? (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ya'la Al -Amir that he said:"Hasan and Hussain came running to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he embraced them and said: 'Children make a man a miser and a coward (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Suraqah bin Malik that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"Shall I not tell you of the best charity? A daughter who comes back to you and has no other breadwinner apart from you." (Daif) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Uqbah bin Amir said, I heard the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) say:"Whoever has three daughters and is patient towards them, and feeds them, gives them to drink, and clothes them from his wealth; they will be a shield for him from the Fire on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"There is no man whose two daughters reach the age of puberty and he treats them kindly for the time they are together, but they will gain him admittance to Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Be kind to your children, and perfect their manners (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Aisha narrated that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Jibra'il kept enjoining good treatment of neighbours untol I thought that he would make neigbours heirs (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurayrah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Jibra'il kept enjoining good treatment of neighbours until I thought he would make neighbours heirs (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"O Allah, bear witness that I have issued a warning concerning (failure to fulfill) the rights of the two weak ones: Orphans and women (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"The best house among the Muslims is a house in which there is an orphan who is treated well. And the worst house among the Muslims is a house in which there is an orphan who is treated badly (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Barzah Al-Aslami said:"O Messenger of Allah! Tell me of an action by which I may benefit.' He said: 'Remove harmful things from the path of the Muslims (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurayrah that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"There was a branch of a tree that annoyed the people. A man removed it, so he was admitted to Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"My nation was shown to me with their good deeds and bad deeds. Among their good deeds I saw a harmful thing being removed from the road. And among their bad deeds I saw sputum in the mosque that had not been removed (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sad bin Ubadah said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, what charity is best?' He said: 'Giving water to drink (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Suraqah bin Ju'shum said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) about a lost camel that comes to my cisterns that I have prepared for my own camels - will I be rewarded if I give it some water to drink? He said: Yes, in every living being there is reward (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jarir bin Abdullah Al-Bajali that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Whoever is deprived of gentleness, he is deprived of goodness (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Allah is Gentle and loves gentleness, and He grants reward for it that He does not grant for harshness (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"Allah is Gentle and loves gentleness in all things (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah said:"Our Prophet(ﷺ) commanded us to spread (the greeting of) peace (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin 'Amr that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Worship the Most Merciful and spread (the greeting of) peace (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:"a man entered the masjid, and the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) was sitting in a corner of the mosque. He prayed, then he came and greeted him with Salam(peace), and he said: 'Wa 'alaikassalm (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah that 'Aishah told him that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said to her:"Jibrail send (greetings of) Salam to you." She said: "Wa 'alahisalam wa rahmatullah (and upon him be peace and mercy of Allah) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said "the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said":"When any of the People of the Book greets you with Salam (peace), then say, Wa 'alaikum(and also upon you) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that some of the Jews came to the Prophet(ﷺ) and said:"Assam o alaika (death be upon you), O Abul-Qasim!" He said: "Wa 'alayikum (and also upon you) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu 'Abdur-Rahman Al Juhani that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"I am riding to the Jews tomorrow. Do not initiate the greeting with them, and if they greet you, then say: Wa 'alaikum (and also upon you) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) came to us, and we were young boys, and he greeted us with (the greeting of) peace (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Asma bint Yazid said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) passed by us, among (a group of) women, and he greeted us with (the greeting of) peace (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"O Messenger of Allah! Should we bow to one another?" He said: "No." We said: "Should we embrace one another?" He said: "No, but shake hands with one another (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bara bin Azib that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"There are no two Muslims who meet and shake hands, but they will be forgiven before they part (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"We kissed the hand of the Prophet(ﷺ) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Safwan bin 'Assal that:"Some people among the Jews kissed the hands and feet of the Prophet(ﷺ) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ali said:"I had two times of visiting the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ), at night and during the day. If I came to him when he was praying, he would clear his throat (to let me know he was praying) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"I asked the Prophet(ﷺ) for permission to enter, and he said: 'Who is that?' I said: 'Me'. The Prophet(ﷺ) said " Me, me? (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"I said: 'How are you this morning, O Messenger of Allah?' He said: 'I am better than one who did not get up fasting, and who did not visit and sick (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"If there comes to you a man who is respected among his own people, then honor him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ilyas bin Salamah bin Akwa' that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: 'The one who sneezes may be responded to three times; if he sneezes more than that, he has a cold (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"When one of you gets up from his spot, then comes back, he has more right to it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Sh'uaib from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) forbade plucking out white hairs and said: 'It is the light of the believer (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah, from his father, that the Prophet(ﷺ) :"forbade sitting between the shade and sun (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Qais bin Tihfah Al-Ghifari that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) found me sleeping in the masjid on my stomach. He nudged me with his foot and said: 'Why are you sleeping like this? This is a kind of sleep that Allah dislikes,' or 'that Allah hates (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Prophet(ﷺ) passed by me and I was lying on my stomach. He nudged me with his foot and said: 'O Junaidib! This is how the people of Hell lie (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah said:"The Prophet(ﷺ) passed by a man who was sleeping in the masjid, lying on his face. He struck him with his foot and said: 'Get up' or; 'Sit up, fo this is a hellish kind of sleep (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Whoever learns about the stars, he learns a branch of magic; the more he learns (of the former) the more he learns (of the latter) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Do not curse the wind, for it is from the mercy of Allah, bringing Rahmah (i.e., rain and breezes), or destruction. But ask Allah for its goodness, and seek refuge with Allah from its evil (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"The most beloved of names to Allah are 'Abdullah and 'Abdur-Rahman (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar ibn Al-Khattab that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"If I live- if Allah wills - I will forbid the names Rabah(profit), Najih(saved), Aflah (Successful), Nafi (beneficial) and Yasar(prosperity) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) forbade giving our slaves four names: Aflah (successful), Nafi' (beneficial), Rabah (profit) and Yasar(prosperity) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Masruq said:"I met 'Umar bin Khattab and he said: 'Who are you?' I said: 'Masruq bin Adja'.' 'Umar said: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) saying,"Ajda' is a devil (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:"Zainab used to be called "Barrah" (good), and it was said that she was praising herself. So the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) changed her name to Zainab (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:"a daughter of 'Umar was Asiyah(disobedient) then the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) named her 'Jamilah' (beautiful) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin Salam said:"I came to the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ), and my name was not Abdullah bin Salam. The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) named me Abdullah bin Salam (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad that they heard Abu Hurairah say:"Abul Qasim(ﷺ) said: 'Call yourselves by my name but do not call yourselves by my Kunyah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Call yourselves by my name but do not call yourselves by my Kunyah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hamzah bin Suhaib that Umar said to Suhaib:"Why are you called Abu Yahya when you do not have a son?" He said: "The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) gave me the Kunya of Abu Yahya (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aisha that she said to the Prophet(ﷺ):"All of your wives have a Kunyah except me." He said: "You are Umm Abdullah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Prophet(ﷺ) used to come to us and say to a brother of mine, who was small: 'O Abu Umair (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Miqdad bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) commanded us to throw dust in the faces of those who praise others (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Muawiyah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) say: 'Beware of praising one another, for it is slaughtering (one another) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"One who is consulted is entrusted (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Mas'ud that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"One who is consulted is entrusted (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"If one of you consults his brother, then let him advise him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aisha that the Prophet(ﷺ):forbade men and women to enter bathhouses, then he allowed men to enter them wearing a waist wrap, but he did not make the same allowance for women (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that when the Prophet(ﷺ) would apply (it):he began with his private area, coating it with hair removing chemical. And his wife would do the remainder of his body (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that:"the Prophet(ﷺ) would coat (with hair removing chemical) and remove the pubic hairs with his hand (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Amr bin Shuaib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"No one tells the stories to the people (for the purpose of exhortation) except a ruler, one appointed by a ruler, or a show-off (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"Stories (for the purpose of exhortation) were unknown at the time of the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ), the time of Abu Bakr and Umar (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ubbay bin Ka'b that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"In some poetry there is wisdom (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"In some poetry there is wisdom (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"The truest of wods spoken by the poet are the words of Labid: Everything except Allah is false.' And Abu Umayyah bin Abu Salt nearly accepted Islam (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Amr bin Sharid that his father said:"I recited one hundered verses of the poetry of Umayyah bin Abu Salt to the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ), and after every line he said, "More". And he said: "He nearly accepted Islam (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"If a man were to fill his stomach completely with pus until it destroyed him, that would be better for him than filling (his mind) with poetry (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sad bin Abu Waqas that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"If a man were to fill his stomach completely with pus until it destroyed him, that would be better for him than filling (his mind) with poetry (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aisha that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"The worst of all people lying is a man who trades insults with another man, disparaging the entire tribe, and a man who denies his father and accuses his mother of adultery (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: 'Whoever plays backgammon has disobeyed Allah and His Messenger (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sulaiman bin Buraidah from his father that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"Whoever plays backgammon, it is as if he dipped his hand in the flesh and blood of a pig (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet(ﷺ) looked at a man who was chasing a bird and said:"A devil chasing a devil (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet(ﷺ) saw a man chasing a pigeon and said:"A male devil following a female devil (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Uthman bin Affan that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) saw a man following a pigeon and said:"A male devil chasing a female devil (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) saw a man chasing a pigeon and said: 'A devil chasing a devil (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"If anyone of you knew what is wrong with being alone, no one would travel at night by himself (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"Do not leave fire in your houses when you go to sleep (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"A house burned down in Al-Madinah, with its occupants inside. The Prophet(ﷺ) was told of what had happened, and he said: 'This fire is an enemy to you. When you go to sleep, extinguish it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) commanded us (to do some things) and forbade us (to do some things), and he commanded us to extinguish our lamps (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Do not camp on the middle of the road, or relieve yourselves there (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin Ja'far said:"Whenever the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) came back from a journey, he would be met by us(children). (One day) he was met by me and Hasan or Husain. He made one of us ride in front of him and the other behind him, until we came to Al-Madinah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Put dust on your writings, because it is better, and dust is blessed (being humble in correspondence brings good results) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"When you are three, two should not converse (privately) to the exclusion of their companion, because that makes him sad (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) forbade two to converse (privately) to the exclusion of a third (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"A man passed through the masjid with some arrows, and the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: 'Hold them by their heads!' He said: 'Yes(ok) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"When anyone of you passes through our masjid or our marketplace carrying arrows, let him hold them by their heads, lest he hurt any Muslims (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Aisha that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The one who is proficient with the Qur'an will be with the noble and righteous scribes (the angels), and the one who reads it and stumbles over it, finding it difficult, will have two rewards (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa`eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"It will be said to the companion of the Qur'an, when he enters Paradise: 'Recite and rise one degree for every Verse,' until he recites the last thing that he knows (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah that his father told that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"The Quran will come on the Day of Resurrection, like a pale man, and will say: 'I am the one that kept you awake at night and made you thirsty during the day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"The likeness of the Quran is that of a hobbled camel. If its owner ties its rope, he will keep it, but if he loosens its rope it will go away (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"There is a surah in the Qur'an, with thirty verses, which will intercede for its companion (the one who recites it) until he is forgiven: Tabarakal-ladhi bi yadihil mulk (Blessed is He in Whose Hand is the Dominion) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said:"Qul Huwa Allahu ahad [Say: He is Allah, (the) One] is equivalent to one third of the Quran (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: Qul Huwa Allahu ahad [Say: He is Allah, (the) One] is equivalent to one third of the Quran (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Masud Al Ansari said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: "Allahu ahad, Al-Wahidus-Samad [Allah (the) One, the One the Self-Sufficient Master] is equivalent to one third of the Quran (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah and Abu Sa'eed bore witness that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"No people sit in a gathering remembering Allah, But the angels surround them, mercy covers them, tranquility descends upon them and Allah remembers them before those who are with Him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet(ﷺ) said:"Allah says: 'I am with My slave when he remembers Me and his lips move saying My Name (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'adh bin Jabal that the :Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: "There is no soul that died bearing witness to La ilaha illallah, and that I am the Messenger of Allah, from the heart with certainity, but Allah will forgive it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Hani' said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: (About saying) La ilaha illah - no deed takes precedence over it and it does not leave any sin (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'The best of remembrance is La ilaha illallah (None has the right to be worshipped but Allah), and the best of supplication is Al-Hamdu Lillah (praise is to Allah) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narratd from Abu Hurairah that :the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say: "Al-hamdu lillahi 'ala kulli hal. Rabbi a'udhu bika min hali ahlin-nar (Praise is to Allah in all circumstances, O Allah, I seek refuge with You from the situation of the people of Hell) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Allah does not bestow a blessing upon any slave and he says: 'Al-hamdu Lillah (praise is to Allah),' except that what he gives (the praise) is better than what he received (the blessing) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever says: Subhan Allahi wa bi hamdihi (Glory and praise is to Allah) one hundred times, his sins will be forgiven even if they were like the foam of the sea (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Messenger of Allah (saas) said: 'I seek the forgiveness of Allah and repent to Him one hundred times each day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Abu Burdah bin Abu Musa, from his father, that :his grandfather said: "The Messenger of Allah (saas) said: 'I seek the forgivenenss of Allah and repent to Him seventy times each day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:"I was harsh in the way I spoke to my family, but not to others. I mentioned that to the Prophet (saas) and he said: 'Why don't you ask for forgiveness? Ask Allah to forgive you, seventy times each day (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abdullah bin Busr said that :the Prophet (saas) said: "Glad tidings to those who find a lot of seeking forgiveness in the record of their deeds (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever persists in asking for forgiveness, Allah will grant him relief from every worry, and a way out from every hardship, and will grant him provision from (sources) he could never imagine (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that :the Prophet (saas) used to say: "Allahum-maj'alni minal-ladhina idha ahsanu istabsharu, wa idha asa'u istaghfaru (O Allah, make me one of those who, if they do good deeds, they rejoice, and if they do bad deeds, they seek forgiveness) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger :of Allah (saas) said: "Every deed of the son of Adam will be multiplied for him, between ten and seven hundred times for each merit. Allah said: 'Except for fasting, for it is for Me and I shall reward for it.'" (sahih) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hazim bin Harmalah said:"I passed by the Prophet (saas) and he said to me: 'O Hazim, say often: "La hawla wa la quwwata illa billah (there is no power and no strength except with Allah)," for it is one of the treasures of Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the :Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "Whoever does not call upon Allah, He will be angry with him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nu'man bin Bashir that :the Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "Indeed the supplication is the worship." Then he recited: "And your Lord said: Invoke Me, I will respond to you (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Prophet (saas) said: "There is nothing more noble to Allah the Glorified, than supplication (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that :the Prophet (saas) used to say: "Allahumma inni as'alukal-huda wat-tuqa wal-'afaf wal-ghina (O Allah, I ask You for guidance, piety, chastity and affluence) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "Seek refuge with Allah from poverty, insufficiency and humiliation, and from wronging (others) and being wronged (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Ask Allah for beneficial knowledge and seek refuge with Allah from knowledge that is of no benefit (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (saas) said: 'There is no supplication that a person can say that is better than: Allahumma inni as'aluka al-mu'afah fid-dunya wal-akhirah (O Allah, I ask You for Al-Mu'afah in this world and in the Hereafter) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :the Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "May Allah have mercy on us and on our brother of 'Ad." (i.e., Prophet Hud alay-salaam) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "It is necessary that you do not become hasty." It was said: "What does being hasty mean, O Messenger of Allah?" He said: "When one says: 'I supplicated to Allah but Allah did not answer me (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the :Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "No one among you should say: "O Allah, forgive me if You will.' Let him be definite in his asking, and no one can compel Allah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Qasim said:The Greatest Name of Allah, if He is called by which He will respond, is in three Surah: Al-Baqarah, Al 'Imran and Ta-Ha. (Hasan)Another chain for something similar from Al-Qasim, from Abu Umamah, from the Prophet (saas) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :the Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "Allah has ninety-nine Names, one hundred less one. Whoever counts them will enter Paradise (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah that :the Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "There are three supplications that will undoubtedly be answered: the supplication of one who has been wronged; the supplication of the traveler; and the supplication of a father for his child (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Haim bint Wadda' Al-Khuza'iyyah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (saas) say: 'The supplication of a father reaches the Veil (i.e. the place of repentance) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salman that the :Prophet (saas) said: "Your Lord is Kind and Most Generous, and is too kind to let His slave, if he raises his hands to Him, bring them back empty," or he said "frustrated (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :the Messenger of Allah (saas) said: "When you supplicate to Allah, supplicate with your palms uppermost, not with the backs of your hands uppermost, and when you finish, wipe your face with them (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:whenever the Prophet (saas) went to bed, he would blow into his hands, recite Al-Mu'awwidhatain, then wipe his hands over his body (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu’adh bin Jabal that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no person who goes to bed in a state of purity, then wakes up at night, and asks Allah for something in this world or the Hereafter, but it will be given to him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Asma’ bint ‘Umais said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) taught me some words to say at times of distress: Allah! Allahu Rabbi la ushriku bihi shay’an (Allah, Allah is my Lord, I do not associate anything with Him).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that whenever he left his house, the Prophet (ﷺ) would say:“Bismillah, la hawla wa la quwwata illa billah, at-tuklanu ‘ala Allah (In the Name of Allah, there is no power and strength except with Allah, and trust is placed in Allah).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw rain, he would say:“Allahumma aj’alhu sayyiban hani’an (O Allah, make it a wholesome rain cloud).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A good dream from a righteous man is one of the forty-six parts of prophecy.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The dream of a believer is one of the forty-six parts of prophecy.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The dream of a righteous Muslim man is one of the seventy parts of prophecy.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Kurz Al-Ka’biyyah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Prophecy is gone, but good dreams remain.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘A righteous dream is one of the seventy parts of prophecy.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever sees me in a dream, has seen me in reality, for Satan cannot appear in my form.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever sees me in a dream has (really) seen me, for Satan cannot appear in my form.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever sees me in a dream has (really) seen me, for Satan cannot appear in my form.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever sees me in a dream has (really) seen me, for Satan cannot imitate me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Awn bin Abu Juhaifah, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever sees me in a dream, it is as if he has seen me when he is awake, for Satan is not able to resemble me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever sees me in a dream has (really) sees me, for Satan cannot imitate me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If anyone of you sees a dream that he dislikes, let him spit dryly to his left three times and seek refuge with Allah from Satan three times, and turn over onto his other side.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If anyone of you sees a dream that he dislikes, let him turn over and spit dryly to his left three times, and ask Allah for its good and seek refuge from its evil.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“A man came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and said: ‘I saw my head was cut off and I saw it rolling away.’ The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Satan goes to one of you and terrifies him, then he tells people of that the next morning.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If anyone of you has a bad dream, he should not tell people about how Satan played with him in his dream.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Interpret them (dreams) in accordance with the names of the things you see, and understand what is hinted at, and the dream is for the first interpreter.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever tells of a false dream, will be ordered (on the Day of Resurrection) to tie two grains of barley together, and he will be punished for that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I saw wristbands of gold on my arms, so I blew into them, and I interpreted them as being these two liars, Musailimah and ‘Ansi.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I dislike (to see in a dream) a chain around the neck, but I like to see fetters on the feet, for fetters (represent) steadfastness in religion.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The whole of the Muslim is sacred to his fellow Muslim, his blood, his wealth and his honor.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Fadalah bin ‘Ubaid narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The believer is the one from whom their (people’s) wealth and lives are safe, and the Muhajir is the one who forsakes mistakes and sins.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever plunders openly is not one of us.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Imran bin Husain that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever plunders is not one of us.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Tha’labah bin Hakam said:“We came across some of the enemy’s sheep and plundered them, and set up our cooking pots. The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by the pots and ordered that they be overturned, then he said: ‘Plunder is not permissible.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Mas’ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Verbally abusing a Muslim is Fusuq disobedience and fighting him is Kufr (ungratefulness to Allah).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Verbally abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (disobedience) and fighting him is Kufr (ungratefulness to Allah).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sa’d that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Verbally abusing a Muslim is Fusuq (disobedience) and fighting him is Kufr.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jarir bin ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, during the Farewell Pilgrimage:“Make the people pay attention.” Then he said: “Do not turn back into disbelievers after I am gone, striking one another’s necks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Woe to you! Do not turn back into disbelievers after I am gone, striking one another’s necks.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sunabih Al-Ahmasi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I shall reach the Cistern (Haud) before you, and I will boast of your great numbers before the nations, so do not fight one another after I am gone.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundab that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever offers the morning prayer, he is under the protection of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The believer is more precious to Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, than some of His angels.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever fights under a banner of folly, supporting tribalism, or getting angry for the sake of tribalism, he dies in a state of ignorance.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Abbad bin Kathir Ash-Shami narrated from a woman among them, called Fasilah, that she heard her father say:“I asked the Prophet (ﷺ): ‘O Messenger of Allah, is it tribalism if a man loves his people?’ He said: ‘No, rather tribalism is when a man helps his people to do wrong.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘My nation will not unite on misguidance, so if you see them differing, follow the great majority.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There will be tribulation in which a man will be a believer in the morning and a disbeliever by evening, except the one to whom Allah grants knowledge.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“There are no two Muslims who confront one another with their swords, but both the killer and the slain will be in Hell.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When one Muslim wields his weapon against his brother, both of them are at the edge of Hell, and if one of them kills the other, they will both enter it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Among the worst people in status before Allah on the Day of Resurrection will be a person who loses his Hereafter for the sake of this world.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There will be a tribulation which will utterly destroy the Arabs, and those who are slain will be in Hell. At that time the tongue will be worse than a blow of the sword.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Beware of tribulations, for at that time the tongue will be like the blow of a sword.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A man may speak a word that angers Allah and not see anything wrong with it, but it will cause him to sink down in Hell the depth of seventy autumns.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him say something good, or else remain silent.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Habibah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The words of the son of Adam count against him, not for him, except what is good and forbidding what is evil, and remembering Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sha’tha said:“It was said to Ibn ‘Umar: ‘We enter upon our rulers and say one thing, and when we leave we say something else.’ He said: ‘At the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), we used to regard that as hypocrisy.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Part of a person’s goodness in Islam is his leaving alone that which does not concern him.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Soon the best wealth of a Muslim will be sheep which he follows in the mountain peaks and places where rainfall is to be found, fleeing for the sake of his religion from tribulations.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah bin Yaman that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There will be tribulations at the gates of which will be callers (calling people) to Hell. Dying when you are biting onto the stump of a tree will be better for you than following anyone of them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The believer should not be stung from the same hole twice.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘The believer should not be stung from the same hole twice.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ma’qil bin Yasar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Worship during the time of bloodshed is like emigrating to me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Islam began as something strange and will go back to being strange, so glad tidings to the strangers.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Islam began as something strange and will go back to being strange, so glad tidings to the strangers.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Islam began as something strange and will go back to being strange, so glad tidings to the strangers.” It was said: “Who are the strangers?’ He said: “Strangers who have left their families and tribes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“People are like a hundred camels; you can hardly find one worth riding among them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Jews split into seventy-one sects and my nation will split into seventy-three sects.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘The Children of Israel split into seventy-one sects, and my nation will split into seventy-two, all of which will be in Hell apart from one, which is the main body.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Usamah bin Zaid that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I am not leaving behind me any tribulation that is more harmful to men than women.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“No morning comes but two angels call out: ‘Woe to men from women, and woe to women from men.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘enjoin what is good and forbid what is evil, before you call and you are not answered.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The best of jihad is a just word spoken to an unjust ruler.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The believer should not humiliate himself.” They said: “How could he humiliate himself?” He said: “By taking on a trial that he cannot deal with.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bara’ bin ‘Azib that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah will curse them and those who curse will curse them.” He said: “The inhabitants of the earth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Thawban that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Nothing increases one’s life span except righteousness and nothing repels the Divine decree except supplication, and a man may be deprived of provision by a sin that he commits.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Abdullah said:“It is as if I can see the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), telling us the story of one of the Prophets: ‘His people beat him, and he was wiping the blood from his face and saying: “O Lord forgive my people, for they do not know.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The greatest reward comes with the greatest trial. When Allah loves a people He tests them. Whoever accepts that wins His pleasure but whoever is discontent with that earns His wrath.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The believer who mixes with people and bears their annoyance with patience will have a greater reward than the believer who does not mix with people and does not put up with their annoyance.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu’awiyah said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: ‘There is nothing left of this world except trials and tribulations.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“You will be picked over just as (good) dates are selected (separated) from its bad ones. So the best of you will be taken and the worst of you will be left, so die if you can.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I and the Hour have been sent like these two,” and he held up his two fingers together (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah bin Asid said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) looked out at us from a room, when we were talking about the Hour. He said: 'The Hour will not begin until there are ten signs: Dajjal, (False Christ), the smoke, and the rising of the sun from the west (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah bin Yaman that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Hour will not begin until you kill your ruler and fight one another with swords, and your world is inherited by the worst of you.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Hour will not begin until the Euphrates uncovers a mountain of gold and people fight over it, and out of every ten, nine will be killed.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Hour will not begin until wealth becomes abundant and tribulations appear, and Harj increases.” They said: “What is Harj, O Messenger of Allah?” He said: “Killing, killing, killing,” three times (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Just before the Hour, there will be days when knowledge will disappear, ignorance will become widespread and there will be much Harj. And Harj means killing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“After you days will come when ignorance will become widespread, knowledge will disappear and there will be much Harj.” They said: “O Messenger of Allah, what is Harj?” He said: “Killing.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that Abu Qatadah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “The (lesser) signs (will come) after two hundred (years).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Just before the Hour comes there will be transformations, the earth collapsing, and Qadhf. (i.e. the throwing of stones perhaps as a means of punishment – maybe it refers to landslides).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sahl bin Sa’d that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“At the end of my nation there will be the earth collapsing, transformations, and Qadhf.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There will be among my nation collapsing of the earth, transformations, and Qadhf.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The Dajjal (False Christ) is blind in his left eye and has abundant hair. With him will be a Paradise and a Hell, but his Hell is Paradise and his Paradise is Hell (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakr Siddiq said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) told us: 'Dajjal will emerge in a land in the east called Khorasan, and will be followed by people with faces like hammered shields (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Nawwas bin Sam'an that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The Muslims will use the bows, arrows and shields of Gog and Magog as firewood, for seven years (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The Hour will not begin until 'Eisa bin Maryam comes down as a just judge and a just ruler. He will break the cross, kill the pigs and abolish the Jizyah, and wealth will become so abundant that no one will accept it (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Mahdi is one of us, the people of the Household. Allah will rectify him in a single night (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Musayyab said:"We were with Umm Salamah and we were discussing Mahdi. She said: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "Mahdi will be one of the descendents of Fatimah (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'We, the sons of 'Abdul-Muttalib, will be leaders of the people of Paradise: Myself, Hamzah. 'Ali, Ja'far, Hasan, Husain and Mahdi (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Harith bin Jaz' Az-Zabidi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"People will come from the east, paving the way for Mahdi," meaning, for his rule (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When the fierce battles take place, Allah will send a troop of freed slaves who will be the best Arab horsemen and the best armed, with whom Allah will support His religion.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'adh bin Jabal that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The great fierce battle, the conquest of Constantinople and the emergence of Dajjal, will all happen within seven months (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Busr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Between the fierce battle and the conquest of Al-Madinah will be six years, and the appearance of Dajjal will come in the seventh (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Awf bin Malik Al-Ashja’i that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There will be a treaty between you and Banu Asfar (The Romans), but they will betray you and will march against you with eighty banners, under each of which there will be twelve thousand troops.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah conveying it from the Prophet (ﷺ):“The Hour will not begin until you fight people with shoes of hair, and the Hour will not begin until you fight people with small eyes.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘The Hour will not begin until you fight people with small eyes and small, even noses, as if their faces were hammered shields. And the Hour will not begin until you fight people whose shoes are made of hair.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Amr bin Taghlib said:“I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: ‘One of the portents of the Hour is that you fight people with broad faces, as if their faces are hammered shields. And one of hte portents of the Hour is that you will fight people who wear shoes of hair.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Khallad, who was one of the Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ), said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘If you see a man who has been given indifference with regard to this world and who speaks little, then draw close to him for he will indeed offer wisdom.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mustawrid, a brother of Banu Fihr, said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘The likeness of this world in comparison to the Hereafter is that of anyone of you dipping his finger into the sea: let him see what he brings forth.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: ‘This world is cursed and what is in it is cursed, except the remembrance of Allah (dhikr) and what is conducive to that, or one who has knowledge or who acquires knowledge.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“This world is a prison for the believer and a paradise for the disbeliever.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took hold of some part of my body and said: ‘O ‘Abdullah, be in this world like a stranger, or one who is passing through, and consider yourself as one of the people of the graves.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Harithah bin Wahb narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Shall I not tell you about the people of Paradise? Every weak and oppressed one. Shall I not tell you about the people of Hell? Every harsh, haughty and arrogant one.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Abi Umamah Al-Harithi that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Simplicity is part of faith.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Asma’ bint Yazid that she heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:“Shall I not tell you of the best of you?” They said: “Yes, O Messenger of Allah.” He said: “The best of you are those who, when they are seen, Allah the Mighty, the Majestic, is remembered.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Imran bin Husain that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah loves His believing slave who is poor, does not beg and has many children.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The poor believers will enter Paradise half a day – five hundred years – before the rich.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The poor Muhajirun will enter Paradise before the rich, the equivalent of five hundred years.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“Ja’far bin Abu Talib used to like the poor; he would sit with them and talk to them, and they would talk to him. And the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave him the Kunyah of Abul-Masakin (Father of the Poor).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“Love the poor, for I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say in his supplication: ‘O Allah, cause me to live poor and cause me to die poor, and gather me among the poor (on the Day of Resurrection).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Woe to the most wealthy except those who do such and such with the money, and such and such” – four things, (pointing) to his right, to his left, in front of him and behind him (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The wealthiest will be the lowest on the Day of Resurrection, except those who do such and such with their money, and earn it from good sources.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The wealthiest will be the lowest, except one who does such and such,’ three things.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“I would not like to have (the equivalent of) Uhud in gold, then a third night comes to me and I have anything of it left, except something that I set aside to pay off a debt.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Wretched is the slave of the Dinar, the slave of the Dirham and the slave of the Khamisah. He is wretched and will be thrown (into Hell) on his face, and if he is pricked with a thorn may find no relief.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Richness is not an abundance of worldly goods, rather richness is contentment with one’s lot.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr bin ‘As that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“He has succeeded who is guided to Islam and is granted sufficient provision and is content with it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah hat the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“O Allah, make the provision of the family of Muhammad sufficient for them.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no rich man or poor man but he will wish on the Day of Resurrection that he had been given the bare minimum of provision.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin ‘Ubaidullah bin Mihsan Al-Ansari that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Whoever among you wakes up physically healthy, feeling safe and secure within himself, with food for the day, it is as if he acquired the whole world.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Look at those who are beneath you and do not look at those who are above you, for it is more suitable that you should not consider as less the blessing of Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah, who attributed it to the Prophet (ﷺ), said:“Allah does not look at your forms or your wealth, rather He looks at your deeds and your hearts.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“We, the family of Muhammad (ﷺ), would stay for a month during which no fire would be lit (for cooking) and we had only dates and water.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Nu’man bin Bashir said:“I heard ‘Umar bin Khattab say: ‘I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) writhing with hunger during the day, and he could not even find the worst of dates with which to fill his stomach.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say several times: ‘By the One in Whose Hand is the soul of Muhammad, the family of Muhammad does not have a Sa’ of food grains or a Sa’ of dates.’ And at that time he had nine wives.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu ‘Ubaidah that ‘Abdullah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The family of Muhammad has only a Mudd of food,’ or ‘The family of Muhammad does not have even a Mud of food.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Sulaiman bin Surad said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to us and we stayed for three nights without having anything to eat.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“One day some hot food was brought to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he ate. Then when he had finished he said: ‘Praise is to Allah, no hot food has entered my stomach since such and such a time.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The bed of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was made of leather, stuffed with fibers of date-palm trees.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Ali said:“The daughter of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was permitted to me as a bride, and our bed on the night when she was presented to me, was no more than the hide of a ram.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“Utbah bin Ghazwan delivered a sermon on the pulpit and said: ‘I saw myself the seventh of seven with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and we did not have any food to eat except the leaves of trees, until our gums hurt.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that they suffered from hunger and they were seven. He said:“Then the Prophet (ﷺ) gave me seven dates, one date for each man.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn ‘Umar said:“I had built a house to shelter me from the rain and the sun, during the time of Allah’s Messenger (ﷺ), and no creature of Allah helped me in building it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
‘Umar said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘If you were to rely upon Allah with the reliance He is due, you would be given provision like the birds: They go out hungry in the morning and come back with full bellies in the evening.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘No one of you should die except thinking positively of Allah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A wise word is the lost property of the believer, so wherever he finds it, he has more right to it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Sa’eed bin Abu Hind that his father said:“I heard Ibn ‘Abbas saying that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Two blessings which many people squander: Good health and free time.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“No one will enter Paradise who has pride in his heart equal to the weight of a grain of mustard seed, and no one will enter Hell who has faith in his heart equal to the weight of a grain of mustard seed.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah, the Glorified, says: ‘Pride is My cloak and greatness My robe, and whoever competes with Me with regard to either of them, I shall throw him into Hell.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah the Glorified, says: ‘Pride is My cloak and greatness My robe, and whoever competes with Me with regard to either of them, I shall throw him into Hell.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:“If a female slave among the people of Al-Madinah were to take the hand of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), he would not take his hand away from hers until she had taken him wherever she wanted in Al-Madinah so that her needs may be met.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Iyad bin Himar that the Prophet (ﷺ) addressed them and said:“Allah has revealed to me that you should be humble towards one another so that none of you boasts to another.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was more modest than a virgin in her chamber. If he disliked something, that could be seen in his face.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every religion has its distinct characteristic, and the distinct characteristic of Islam is modesty.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every religion has its distinct characteristic, and the distinct characteristic of Islam is modesty.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Uqbah bin ‘Amr, Abu Mas’ud, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Among the words that people learned from the earlier Prophets are: ‘If you feel no shame, then do as you wish.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Modesty is part of faith, and faith will be in Paradise. Obscenity in speech is part of harshness and harshness will be in Hell.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is never any obscenity in a thing, but it mars it, and there is never any modesty in a thing, but it adorns it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Ashajj ‘Ansari:“You have two characteristics that Allah likes: Forbearance and modesty.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no gulp that brings greater reward with Allah than a gulp of anger that a man swallows (suppresses), seeking thereby the Face of Allah.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If you knew what I know, you would laugh little and weep much.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Do not laugh a lot, for laughing a lot deadens the heart.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Bara’ said:“We were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at a funeral, and he sat at the edge of the grave weeping, until the ground became wet. Then he said: ‘O my brothers, prepare yourselves for something like this.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sa’d bin Abu Waqqas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Weep, and if you cannot weep then pretend to weep.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Mas’ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no believing slave who sheds tears, even if they are like the head of a fly, out of fear of Allah, and they roll down his cheeks, but Allah will forbid him to the Fire.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Mu’awiyah bin Abu Sufyan said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘Deeds are like vessels. If the lower part is good then the upper part will be good, and if the lower part is bad then the upper part will be bad.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If a person prays in public and does it well, and he prays in secret and does it well, then Allah says: ‘This man is truly My slave.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Whoever wants to be heard of, Allah will make him heard of, and whoever wants to be seen, Allah will show him (i.e., make known to the people his true motives and intentions).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jundab that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever wants to be heard of, Allah will make him heard of, and whoever wants to be seen, Allah will show him (i.e., expose his real motives).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Envy consumes good deeds just as fire consumes wood, and charity extinguishes bad deeds just as water extinguishes fire. Prayer is the light of the believer and fasting is a shield against the Fire.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no sin more deserving that Allah hasten the punishment in this world, in addition to what is stored up for him in the Hereafter – than injustice and severing the ties of kinship.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Aishah, the Mother of the Believers, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The most quickly rewarded of good deeds are kindness and upholding the ties of kinship, and the most quickly punished evil deeds are injustice and severing the ties of kinship.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“It is sufficient evil for a man to look down on his Muslim brother.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah has revealed to me that you should be humble towards one another and should not wrong one another.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no wisdom like reflection, and no honor like good manners.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundab that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Being honorable is wealth and noble character is piety.’ (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr:“I said to the Prophet (ﷺ): ‘(What do you say about when) a man does a deed for the sake of Allah, and people love him for it?’ He said: ‘That is the immediate glad tidings of the believer.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“People will be resurrected (and judged) according to their intentions.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“People will be gathered (on the Day of Resurrection) according to their intentions.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“This is the son of Adam, and this is his life span at his neck,’ then he spread his hand in front of him and said: ‘And there is his hope.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The heart of an old man is young in the love of two things: Love of life and much wealth.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The son of Adam grows old but two things remain young in him: His craving for wealth and his craving for a long life.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If the son of Adam had two valleys of wealth, he would love to have a third along with them. Nothing could satisfy him except dust. And Allah accepts the repentance of the one who repents.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The ages of (the people in) my nation will be between sixty and seventy, and few of them will exceed that.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:“By the One Who took his (ﷺ) soul, he did not die until most of his prayers were offered sitting down. And the most beloved of deeds to him was a righteous deed which a person persists in doing, even if it is something small.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Take on only as much as you can do of good deeds, for the best of deeds is that which is done consistently, even if it is little.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: ‘O ‘Aishah, beware of (evil) deeds that are regarded as insignificant, for they have a pursuer from Allah. (i.e. accountability).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Prophet (ﷺ) was asked: ‘What most admits people to Paradise?’ He said: ‘Piety and good manners.’ And he was asked: ‘What most leads people to Hell?’ He said: ‘The two hollow ones: The mouth and the private part.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Allah rejoiced more over the repentance of anyone of you, then you rejoice over your lost animal when you find it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“If you were to commit sin until your sins reach the heaven, then you were to repent, your repentance would be accepted.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu ‘Ubadah bin ‘Abdullah, that his father said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘The one who repents from sin is like one who did not sin.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every son of Adam commits sin, and the best of those who commit sin are those who repent.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Ma’qil said:“I entered with my father upon ‘Abdullah, and I heard him say: ‘The messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Regret is repentance.” My father said: ‘Did you hear the Prophet (ﷺ) say: “Regret is repentance?” He said: ‘Yes.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin ‘Amr that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Allah accepts the repentance of His slave so long as the death rattle has not yet reached his throat.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A woman entered Hell because of a cat which she tied up and did not feed, or let it loose to eat of the vermin of the earth, until it died.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Frequently remember the destroyer of pleasures,’ meaning death.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“There is no part of man that will not disintegrate, apart from a single bone at the base of the coccyx, from which he will be recreated on the Day of Resurrection.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdur-Rahman bin Ka’b Al-Ansari that his father used to narrate that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The believer’s soul is a bird that eats from the trees of Paradise, until it will be returned to his body on the Day when he is resurrected.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“When the deceased enters the grave, the sun is made to appear as if it is setting. He sits up, wipes his eyes and says: ‘Let me pray.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The two who are entrusted with the Trumpet have two horns in their hands, waiting until they will be commanded (to blow them).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The Day when (all) mankind will stand before the Lord of all that exists.” [83:6] One of them will stand in his sweat up to halfway up his ears.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that ‘Aishah said:“I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): “On the Day when the earth will be changed to another earth and so will be the heavens.” [14:48] – where will the people be on that Day?’ He said: ‘On the Sirat (the Bridge across Hell-fire).’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Abu Sa’eed narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The Sirat will be placed across Hell, on thorns like the thorns of Sa’dan plant.* Then the people will cross it. Some will pass over safe and sound, some will be detained, and some will fall in headfirst.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“You will come to me with radiant faces, hands and feet from the traces of ablution. This is the characteristic sign of my nation which does not belong to anyone else.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bahz bin Hakim, from his father, that his grandfather said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘On the Day of Resurrection, we will complete seventy nations, of whom we are the last and the best.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Bahz bin Hakim, from his father, that his grandfather said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘You complete seventy nations, of which you are the best and dearest to Allah.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sulaiman bin Buraidah, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The people of Paradise are one hundred and twenty ranks, eighty from this nation and forty from all other nations.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“We are the last of the nations, and the first to be brought to account. It will be said: ‘Where is the unlettered nation and its Prophet?’ So we are the last and the first.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When Allah created the universe, He decreed for Himself: ‘My mercy prevails over My wrath.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The distance between the two ends of my Cistern is like the distance between San’a and Al-Madinah,’ or ‘between Al-Madinah and ‘Amman.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:‘One can see in it (the Cistern) jugs of gold and silver, like the number of stars in the sky.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: ‘My intercession on the Day of Resurrection will be for those among my nation who committed major sins.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-Ash’ari that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“I was given the choice between being admitted to Paradise, and I chose intercession, because it is more general and more sufficient. Do you think it is for the pious? No, it is for the impure sinners.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Uthman bin ‘Affan that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Three will intercede on the Day of Resurrection: The Prophets, then the scholars, then the martyrs.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ubayy bin Ka’b, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When the Day of Resurrection comes, I will be the leader of the Prophets and the one who addresses them, and the one among them who will agree to intercede, and it is no boast.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Imran bin Husain that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Some people will be brought forth from Hell by my intercession, who will be called Al-Jahannamiyyin (those who came out of Hell).” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from ‘Abdullah bin Abi Jad’a’ that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say:“More than (the members of the tribe of) Banu Tamim will enter Paradise through the intercession of a man from among my nation.” They said: “O Messenger of Allah, besides you?” He said: “Besides me.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The Fire will consume all of the son of Adam except the mark of prostration. Allah has forbidden the Fire to consume the mark of prostration.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah says: ‘I have prepared for My righteous slaves that which no eye has seen, no ear has heard, and it has never crossed the mind of man.’” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“A hand span in Paradise is better than the earth and everything on it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Sahl bin Sa’d that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“A place the size of a whip in Paradise is better than this world and everything in it.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn ‘Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Kauthar is a river in Paradise whose banks are of gold and its bed is of rubies and pearls. Its soil is more fragrant than musk, its water is sweeter than honey and whiter than snow.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“In Paradise there is a tree under whose shade a rider could travel for one hundred years and never leave it.” "Recite, if you wish: 'And in shade long-extended (56:) (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“When the believer wants a child in Paradise, he will be conceived and born and grown up, in a short while, according to his desire.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Whoever asks for Paradise, three times, Paradise will say: “O Allah, admit him to Paradise.” And whoever asked to be saved from Hell, three times, Hell will say: “O Allah, save him from Hell.” (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Another chain with a similar report to which he added:"They will gather for the fierce battle, and at that time they will come with eighty banners, under each of which will be twelve thousand troops (from eng-ibnmajah.txt)
Urwa said that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace used to pray asr while the sunlight was pouring into her room, before the sun itself had become visible (i.e. because it was still high in the sky) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ishaq ibn Abdullah ibn Abi Talha that Anas ibn Malik said, "We would pray asr and anyone who then went to the Bani Amr ibn Awf would find them praying asr (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Anas ibn Malik said, "We would pray asr and anyone who then went to Quba would arrive there while the sun was still high (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Rabia ibn Abi Abd ar-Rahman that al Qasim ibn Muhammad said, "None of the companions that I met prayed dhuhr until well after noon,"(i.e.until when the sun had lost its fierceness) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Amr ibn Yahya ibn Yahya al- Mazini from Ibn Abi Salit that Uthman ibn Affan prayed jumua in Madina and asr in Malal (a place seventeen miles from Madina). Malik commented, "That was by praying jumua just past midday and then travelling fast (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Abu Salama ibn Abdar-Rahman from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said "Whoever catches a raka of the prayer has caught the prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar ibn al-Khattab used to say, "If the ruku has passed you by, so has the sajda (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Umar and Zayd ibn Thabit used to say, "Whoever catches the raka`ah has caught the sajda (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abu Hurayra used to say, "Whoever catches the ruku has caught the sajda and whoever misses the recitation of the umm al-Qur'an has missed much good (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "Duluk ash-shams begins from when the sun passes the meridian (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Da'ud ibn al-Husayn said that someone had told him Abdullah ibn Abbas used to say, "Duluk ash-shams begins from when the sun passes the meridian. Ghasaq al-layl is the gathering of the night and its darkness (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "If someone misses the asr prayer it is as if he has suffered a great misfortune in his family and wealth (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that one time Abdullah ibn Umar fainted and lost his senses and he did not make up the prayer. Malik commented, "We consider that that was because, and Allah knows best, the time had passed. Someone who recovers within the time has to pray (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "When the heat is fierce, wait until it gets cooler before you do the prayer, for scorching heat is from the blast of Jahannam (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Said ibn al- Musayyab that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Anyone who eats this plant should not come near our mosques. The smell of the garlic will offend us (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Mujabbar that he used to see Salim ibn Abdullah pull the cloth away fiercely from the mouth of any man he saw covering his mouth while praying (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Ibn Shihab from Abu Idris al-Khawlani from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "The person doing wudu should snuff water up his nose and blow it out again (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "If you fall asleep Iying down you must do wudu ( before you pray) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafithat Ibn Umar used to sleep sitting and then would pray without doing wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say that men and their wives used to do wudu together in the time of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd Aslam from Ata ibn Yasar from Abdullah Abbas that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, ate a shoulder of lamb and then prayed without doing wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Damra ibn Said al-Mazini from Aban ibn Uthman that Uthman ibn Affan ate bread and meat, rinsed his mouth out, washed his hands and wiped his face with them, and then prayed without doing wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Ali ibn Abi Talib and Abdullah ibn Abbas did not do wudu after eating cooked food (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that he asked Abdullah ibn Amir ibn Rabia whether a man who did wudu for prayer and then ate cooked food had to do wudu again. He said, "I saw my father do that without doing wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu Nuaym Wahb ibn Kaysan that he heard Jabir ibn Abdullah al-Ansari saying, "I saw Abu Bakr as- Siddiq eat meat and then pray without doing wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, was asked about cleaning after excretion. He replied, "Are any of you unable to find three stones? (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that he heard someone ask Said ibn al-Musayyab about washing off excreta with water. Said said, "That is the way women wash (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "If a dog drinks from your vessel, wash it seven times (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Try to go straight, although you will not be able to do so. Act, and the best of your actions is the prayer. And only a mumin is constant in his wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used two fingers to take water to his ears (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Jabir ibn Abdullah al-Ansari was asked about wiping over a turban. He said, "Not unless you have wiped over your hair with water (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that Abu Urwa ibn az-Zubayr used to take off his turban and wipe his head with water (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that he saw his father wiping over his leather socks. He said, "When he wiped over his socks he would never do more than wipe the tops and he would not wipe the bottoms (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar would leave and do wudu if he had a nose-bleed and then return and complete his prayer without saying anything (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Abbas used to have nose-bleeds and would leave to wash off the blood. He would then return and complete his prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me that Abd ar-Rahman ibn Harmala al-Aslami said, "I saw Said ibn al-Musayyab with his nose bleeding and blood poured out of it so that his fingers were all red from the blood coming out of his nose, and he prayed without doing wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abd ar Rahman ibn al-Mujabbar that he saw Salim ibn Abdullah with blood running from his nose so that his fingers were all coloured red. Then he rubbed it and prayed without doing wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Zayd ibn Aslam from his father that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "I find it dropping from me like small beads. When you find that, wash your penis and do wudu as for prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from his father that Jundub, the mawla of Abdullah ibn Ayyash, said, "I asked Abdullah ibn Umar about prostatic fluid and he said, 'When you find it, wash your genitals and do wudu as for prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that as-Salt ibn Zuyayd said, "I asked Sulayman ibn Yasar about a liquid I discovered. He said, 'Wash what is under your garments with water and forget about it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "If you touch your penis you have to do wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father used to say, "If any of you touches his penis he has to do wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Salim ibn Abdullah said, "I saw my father Abdullah ibn Umar, do ghusl and then do wudu. I said to him, 'Father, isn't ghusl enough for you?' He said, 'Of course, but sometimes I touch my penis, so I do wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah that his father Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "A man's kissing his wife and fondling her with his hands are part of intercourse. Someone who kisses his wife or fondles her with his hand must do wudu (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Masud used to say, "Wudu is necessary if a man kisses his wife (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab used to say, "Wudu is necessary if a man kisses his wife." Nafi said that Malik said, "That is what I like most out of what I have heard (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Urwa ibn az- Zubayr from A'isha, umm al-muminin, that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to do ghusl for major ritual impurity from a vessel which contained a faraq (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that A'isha was asked about how a woman should do ghusl for major ritual impurity. She said, "She should scoop water over her head with both hands three times and rub the roots of her hair with her hands (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "When the circumcised part passes the circumcised part, ghusl is obligatory (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "There is no harm in doing ghusl with water that has been used by one's wife as long as she is not menstruating or in a state of major ritual impurity (junub) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to sweat in a garment while he was junub and then pray with it on (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar and he were approaching Juruf. When they got to Mirbad, Abdullah got down and did tayammum with some good earth. He wiped his face, and his arms to the elbows, and then prayed (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to do tayammum up to his elbows. Malik was asked about how tayammum was done and what parts were covered and he said, "Strike the ground once for the face and once for the arms and wipe them to the elbows (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Ubaydullah ibn Abdullah ibn Umar sent a question to A'isha asking her, "May a man fondle his wife when she is menstruating?" She replied, "Let her wrap her waist-wrapper around her lower part and then he may fondle her if he wishes (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said that a pregnant woman who noticed bleeding left off from prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he asked Ibn Shihab about a pregnant woman who noticed bleeding. Ibn Shihab replied, "She refrains from prayer." Yahya said that Malik said, "That is what is done in our community (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "I used to comb the head of the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, while I was menstruating (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father from Zaynab bint Abu Salama that she saw Zaynab bint Jahsh, the wife of Abd ar-Rahman ibn Awf, and she used to bleed as if menstruating. She would do ghusl and pray (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Were it not that I would be overburdening my community I would have ordered them to use a tooth-stick (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Ata ibn Yazid al-Laythi from Abu Said al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "When you hear the adhan, repeat what the muadhdhin says (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the muadhdhin came to Umar ibn al-Khattab to call him to the subh prayer and found him sleeping, so he said, "Prayer is better than sleep," and Umar ordered him to put that in the adhan for subh (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from his paternal uncle Abu Suhayl ibn Malik that his uncle's father said, "I recognise nothing nowadays of what I saw the people (i.e. the companions of the Messenger, may Allah bless him and grant him peace ) doing except the call to prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Umar heard the iqama while he was in Baqi, so he increased his pace of walking to the mosque (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that on a journey Abdullah ibn Umar did no more than the iqama, except for subh, when he called both the adhan and the iqama. Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "The adhan is for an imam whom people join (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn Dinar from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Bilal calls the adhan whilst it is still night so eat and drink until Ibn Umm Maktum calls the adhan (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Sa'id from Sulayman ibn Yasar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to raise his hands in the prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu Nuaym Wahb ibn Kaysan that Jabir ibn Abdullah used to teach them the takbir in the prayer. Abu Nuaym said, "He used to tell us to say 'Allah is greater' whenever we lowered or raised ourselves (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Muhammad ibn Jubayr ibn Mutim that his father said, "I heard the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, recite at-Tur (Sura 52) in the maghrib prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Adi ibn Thabit al-Ansari that al-Barra ibn Azib said, "I prayed isha with the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, and he recited at-Tin (Sura 95) in it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Humayd at-Tawil that Anas ibn Malik said, "I stood behind Abu Bakr and Umar and Uthman and none of them used to recite 'In the name of Allah, the Merciful, the Compassionate' when they began the prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from his paternal uncle Abu Suhayl ibn Malik that his father said, "We heard the recitation of Umar ibn al-Khattab when we were at the home of Abu Jahmin al-Balat." (Al-Balat was a place in Madina between the mosque and the market) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that when Abdullah ibn Umar missed anything of the prayer in which the imam recited out loud, he would stand up when the imam had said the taslim and recite what he owed out loud to himself (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yazid ibn Ruman said, "I used to pray next to Nafi ibn Jubayr ibn Mutim and he would nudge me to prompt him while we were praying (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that Abu Bakr as-Siddiq prayed subh and recited suratal-Baqara in the two rak'as (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to recite the first ten suras of the mufassal in the subh prayer, and on a journey he would recite the ummal-Qur'an and a sura in every raka (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu Nuaym Wahb ibn Kaysan that he heard Jabir ibn Abdullah say, "Someone who prays a raka without reciting the umm al-Qur'an in it has not done the prayer except behind an imam (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father used to recite behind the imam when the imam did not recite aloud (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said and from Rabia ibn Abi Abd ar Rahman that al-Qasim ibn Muhammad used to recite behind the imam when the imam did not recite aloud (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yazid ibn Ruman that Nafi ibn Jubayr ibn Mutim used to recite behind the imam when hedid not recite aloud . Malik said, "That is the most preferable to me of what I have heard about the matter (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar, when questioned about forgetfulness in the prayer, said, "If you think that you have forgotten part of the prayer, then pray it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "I forget or I am made to forget so that I may establish the sunna (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Said ibn Abi Said al-Maqburi that Abu Hurayra used to say, "Doing ghusl as prescribed for major ritual impurity is incumbent (wajib) on the day of jumua on every male who has reached puberty (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Safwan ibn Sulaym from Ata ibn Yasar from Abu Said al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Ghusl on the day of jumua is incumbent on every male who has reached puberty (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Even saying to your companion 'Listen' while the imam is giving the khutba on the day of jumua, is to speak foolishly (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar saw two men talking while the imam was giving the khutba on the day of jumua and he threw pebbles at them to tell them to be quiet (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he asked Ibn Shihab about talking in the jumua after the imam had come down from the mimbar but before he had said the takbir. Ibn Shihab said, "There is no harm in that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "There is nothing wrong in wearing two garments which are not work-clothes for jumua (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar would never go to jumua without wearing oil and perfume except when it was forbidden (i.e. when he was muhrim) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Safwan ibn Sulaym said, "If anyone omits jumua three times without reason or illness, Allah will set a seal on his heart." (Malik said, "I don't know if it was from the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, or not) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Jafar ibn Muhammad from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, gave two khutbas on the day of jumua and sat down between them (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yazid ibn Ruman said, "The people used to watch the night in prayer during Ramadan for twenty- three rakas in the time of Umar ibn al-Khattab (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr said, "I heard my father say, 'We finished praying in Ramadan and the servants hurried with the food, fearing the approach of dawn (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that Dhakwan Abu Amr (a slave belonging to A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, who was freed by her after her death) used to stand in prayer and recite for her in Ramadan (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab used to say, "Sleep is disapproved of before isha and conversation after it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "(Voluntary) prayer in both the day and night is two at a time with a taslim after every 2 raka'ahs." Malik said, "That is the custom among us (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Said ibn al-Musayyab said, "Abu Bakr as-Siddiq used to pray witr when he wished to go to bed, and Umar ibn al-Khattab used to pray witr at the end of the night. As for me, I pray witr when I go to bed (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say the taslim between the two rakas and the one raka of witr so that he could order something he needed (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Sad ibn Abi Waqqas used to pray witr after isha with one raka. Malik said, "This is not the situation with us. Rather three is the minimum for witr (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Abbas and Ubada ibn as-Samit and al-Qasim ibn Muhammad and Abdullah ibn Amir ibn Rabia had all prayed witr after the break of dawn (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that Abdullah ibn Masud said, "I do not mind if the iqama for the subh prayer is called while I am still praying witr (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said said, ''Ubada ibn as-Samit used to lead the people in prayer. One day he came out for subh and the muadhdhin began to give the iqama for the subh prayer Ubada silenced him, prayed witr and then led them in subh (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim said, "I heard Abdullah ibn Amir ibn Rabia say, 'I sometimes pray witr while hearing the iqama, or after the break of dawn.' " Abd ar-Rahman was not certain which he said (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim heard his father al-Qasim ibn Muhammad say, "I have prayed witr after dawn." Malik said, "Only a person who oversleeps so that he does not do the witr prays it after dawn. No one should intentionally make his witr after dawn (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Umar missed the two rakas of dawn, and then did them after the sun rose (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim that al-Qasim ibn Muhammad had done the same as Ibn Umar (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Prayer in congregation is better than the prayer of a man by himself by twenty-seven degrees (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Said ibn al- Musayyab from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Prayer in congregation is better than the prayer of one of you on his own by twenty-five parts (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'n-Nadr, the mawla of Umar ibn Ubaydullah from Yusr ibn Said that Zayd ibn Thabit said, "The most excellent prayer is your prayer in your house, except for the prescribed prayers (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Nafi said, "I stood behind Abdullah ibn Umar in one of the prayers when there was no one else with him, and he reached behind with his hand and placed me beside him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that a man used to lead the people in prayer in al-Aqiq (a place near Madina), and Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz sent a message to him forbidding him to do so. Malik said, "He only forbade him because his father was not known (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Urwa ibn az-Zubayr and Said ibn al-Musayyab used to pray voluntary prayers sitting (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Da'ud ibn al-Husayn that Ibn Yarbu al-Makhzumi said, "I heard Zayd ibn Thabit say, 'The middle prayer is the prayer of dhuhr (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that AIi ibn Abi Talib and Abdullah ibn Abbas used to say, "The middle prayer is the prayer of subh." Malik said, "Out of all that I have heard about the matter, I prefer what Ali ibn Abi Talib and Abdullah ibn Abbas said (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Jabir ibn Abdullah used to pray in one garment (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Rabia ibn Abi Abd ar-Rahman that Muhammad ibn Amr ibn Hazm used to pray in a single long shirt (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to pray in a shift and head-covering (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that a woman asked him for a decision, saying, "Waist-wrappers are painful to me. Can I pray in a shift and head-covering?" He replied, "Yes, if the shift is long (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Da'ud ibn al-Husayn from al- Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, joined dhuhr and asr on his journey to Tabuk (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to join maghrib and isha together when it was urgent to travel (from eng-malik.txt)
(with regards to above) Malik said, "I believe that was during rain." Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to join the prayer along with the amirs if they joined maghrib and isha in the rain (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that he had asked Salim ibn Abdullah, "Can you join dhuhr and asr when travelling?" He said, "Yes, there is no harm in that. Haven't you seen the people pray on Arafa? (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that he said to Salim ibn Abdullah, "What is the latest you have seen your father delay maghrib while on a journey?" and Salim replied, "One time the sun set when we were at Dhat al-Jaysh and he prayed maghrib at al- Aqiq (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar, shortened the prayer when he left for hajj or umra at Dhu'l Hulayfa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah that his father rode to Rim and shortened the prayer on the journey. Malik said, "That was about four mail-stages." (approximately forty-eight miles) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Salim ibn Abdullah that Abdullah ibn Umar rode to Dhat an-Nusub and shortened the prayer on the journey. Malik said, "There are four mail-stages between Dhat an-Nusub and Madina (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Ibn Umar that he used to travel to Khaybar and he would shorten the prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah that Abdullah ibn Umar used to shorten the prayer when he travelled for a whole day (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that he used to travel one mail-stage with Ibn Umar, and he would not shorten the prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "I pray the prayerof a traveller as long as I am undecided whether to remain somewhere or not, even if I am detained for twelve nights (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Ibn Umar stayed in Makka for ten nights, shortening the prayer, except when he prayed it behind an imam, in which case he followed the imam's prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah from his father that Umar ibn al-Khattab, when he went to Makka, used to lead them in prayer and do two rakas and then say, "People of Makka,complete the prayer, we are a group travelling (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related the same as that to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from his father from Umar ibn al-Khattab (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to pray four rakas behind the imam at Mina, and when he prayed by himself he would pray two rakas (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Safwan said, "Abdullah ibn Umar used to come and visit Abdullah ibn Safwan and he would pray two rakas with us, and when he went away we would stand and complete the prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar never used to pray anything with the fard prayer, either before it or after it, while travelling, except in the depths of the night. He would pray on the ground or on his mount, whichever way it was facing (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me that Malik said, "I have heard from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to see his son, Ubaydullah ibn Abdullah, doing voluntary prayers on a journey,and he would not disapprove of it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Amr ibn Yahya al-Mazini from Abu'l-Hubab Said ibn Yasar that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "I saw the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, praying on a donkey while heading towards Khaybar (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said said, "I saw Anas ibn Malik on a journey praying on a donkey facing away from the qibla. He did the raka and the sajda by motioning with his head, without putting his face on anything (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from A'isha that she used to pray duha with eight rakas, and she would say, "I would never stop doing them even if my parents were to be brought back to life (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from Ata ibn Yasar that Kab al-Ahbar said, "If the person who passed in front of a man praying knew what he was bringing on himself, it would be better for him to sink into the ground than to pass in front of him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Umar used to disapprove of passing in front of women while they were praying (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar would neither pass in front of anyone, nor let anyone pass in front of him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Ali ibn Abi Talib said, "Things that pass in front of a man praying do not break his prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "Things that pass in front of a man praying do not break his prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Umar would use the animal he was riding as a sutra when he prayed (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father used to pray in the desert without a sutra (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abu Jafar al-Qari said, "I saw Abdullah ibn Umar quickly brush away the small stones from the place where he was going to put his forehead as he was going down into sajda (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that he had heard that Abu Dharr used to say, "Brush away the small stones with one sweep, but if you leave them it is better than a red camel (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Umar ibn al-Khattab used to order the rows to be straightened, and when they had come to him and told him that the rows were straight he would say the takbir (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar did not say qunut in any of the prayers (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "You should not pray while you are holding your bowels (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab said, "It is said that no-one except a hypocrite leaves the mosque after the call to prayer, except for someone who intends to return (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Amir ibn Abdullah ibn az- Zubayr from Amr ibn Sulaymaz-Zuraqi from Abu Qatadaal-Ansari that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "When you enter the mosque, you should pray two rakas before you sit down (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to place his palms flat on the surface where he put his forehead. Nafi said, "I have seen him take his hands out from under his burnus on a very cold day and place them on the ground (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Ibn Umar would never turn around when praying (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abu Jafar al-Qari said, "I was praying, and Abdullah ibn Umar was behind me and I was not aware of it. Then I turned round and he prodded me (in disapproval) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Abu Umama ibn Sahl ibn Hunayf said, "Zayd ibn Thabit entered the mosque and found the people in ruku, so he went into ruku and then moved slowly forward until he reached the row (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Masud used to move forward while in ruku (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Dinar said, "I saw Abdullah ibn Umar stop by the grave of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, and ask for blessings on the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, and on Abu Bakr and Umar (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that when the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to go to Quba (to pray), he would walk as well as ride (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Do some of the prayers in your houses (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "When a sick man is unable to prostrate he should motion with his head, and not raise anything to his forehead (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Rabia ibn Abi Abd ar-Rahman that if Abdullah ibn Umar arrived at the mosque and the people had already prayed, he would begin with the obligatory prayer and not pray anything before it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that one of the muhajirun in whom he saw no harm asked Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-As, "Can I pray in a place where camels are watered?" Abdullah replied, "No, but you can pray in a sheep-pen (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Said ibn al- Musayyab said, "Which prayer is it when you remain in the sitting position in every raka?'' Said said, "It is maghrib when you miss one raka, and that is the sunna in all the prayers (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Abbad ibn Tamim from his paternal uncle that he saw the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, lying down in the mosque with one foot on top of the other (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Said ihn al-Musayyab that Umar ibn al Khattab and Uthman ibn Affan, may Allah be pleased with them, used to do the same (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab set aside an area near the mosque called al-Butayha and said, "Whoever wishes to talk nonsense or recite poetry or raise his voice should go to that area (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to do ghusl on the day of Fitr before going to the place of prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to pray on the day of Fitr and the day of Adha before the khutba (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abu Bakr and Umar used to do that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that he used to eat on the day of the id al-Fitr before going out (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Said al- Musayyab told him that people used to be told to eat on the day of Fitr before setting out. Malik said that he did not consider that people had to do that for Adha (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Nafi, the mawla of Abdullah ibn Umar said, "I was at Adha and Fitr with Abu Hurayra and he said 'Allah is greater' seven times in the first raka, before the recitation, and five times in the second, before the recitation (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar did not pray either before the prayer or after it on the day of Fitr (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab used to go to the place of prayer after praying subh, and before the sun rose (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim that his father used to pray four rakas before he went to the place of prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father used to pray on the day of Fitr before the prayer in the mosque (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Amr ibn Shuayb that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, when he asked for rain, "O Allah, give water to Your slaves and Your animals, and spread Your mercy, and give life to Your dead land (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to say, "When a cloud appears from the direction of the sea and then goes towards ash-Sham, it will be an abundant source of rain (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from one of the Ansar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade defecating or urinating while facing the qibla (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "Any direction that is between east and west can be taken as a qibla if the person praying is face-on to the House (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr from Abbad ibn Tamim from Abdullah ibn Zayd al-Mazini that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "What is between my house and my mimbar is one of the meadows of the Garden (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, 'Do not forbid the female slaves of Allah from (going into) the mosques of Allah (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard from Busr ibn Said that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "None of you women should use perfume when you are present at the isha prayer (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that it took Abdullah ibn Umar eight years to learn Surat al-Baqara. (Sura) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi, the mawla of Ibn Umar that a man from Egypt told him that Umar ibn al-Khattab recited Surat al-Hajj (Sura 22) and prostrated twice in it, and then said, "This sura has been given special preference by having two prostrations in it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Dinar said, "I saw Abdullah ibn Umar prostrate twice in Surat al-Hajj (Sura) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from al-Araj that Umar ibn al Khattab recited Surat an-Najm (Sura 53) and prostrated in it, and then got up and recited another sura (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Humayd ibn Abd ar-Rahman ibn Awf had told him that Surat al-Ikhlas (Sura 112) was equal to a third of the Qur'an, and that Surat al-Mulk (Sura 67) pleaded for its owner (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Every prophet is given a supplication (dua), and I wish to preserve my dua as intercession for my community in the next world (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Zayd ibn Aslam used to say, "No-one makes a dua without one of three things happening. Either it is answered, or it is stored up for him, or wrong actions are atoned for by it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Dinar said, "Abdullah ibn Umar saw me when I was making dua and I was pointing with two fingers, one from each hand, and he forbade me (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Said ibn al-Musayyab used to say, "A man is raised by the dua of his son after his death." He spoke with his hands turned upwards, and then lifted them up (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "O Allah, make me one of the leaders of the people of taqwa ." Allahumma jalniy min a'imati'l-mutaqin (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abu'd-Darda used to rise in the middle of the night and say, "Eyes have slept, and stars have set, and You are the Living and Self Subsistent." Namat'l uyun wa ghariti'n-nujum wa anta'lhayyu-l-qayyum (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "You should not intend to pray either at sunrise or sunset (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Muhammad ibn Yahya ibn Habban from al Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade prayer after asr until the sun had set, and prayer after subh until the sun had risen (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from as-Sa'ib ibn Yazid that he saw Umar ibn al-Khattab beating al-Munkadir for praying after asr (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Jafar ibn Muhammad from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, was washed in a long shirt (from eng-malik.txt)
Hadith Translation Not Available (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Humayd ibn Abdar-Rahman ibn Awf that Abdullah ibn Amr ibn al-As said, "A dead man is clothed in a shirt and a waist-wrapper and then wrapped in a third, and if he only has one garment he is shrouded in that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, and Abu Bakr and Umar as well as the khalifas up until this time and Abdullah ibn Umar, would walk in front of the bier (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Muhammad ibn alMunkadir that Rabia ibn Abdullah ibn alHadir told him that he had seen Umar ibn al-Khattab leading people in front of the bier at the funeral of Zaynab bint Jahsh (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Hisham ibn Urwa said, "I only ever saw my father in front of a funeral procession." He added, "Then he would come to al-Baqi and sit down until the procession passed him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab said, "Walking behind the bier is in contradiction to the sunna (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that Asma bint Abi Bakr said to her family, "Perfume my clothes with incense when I die and then embalm me. Do not put any of the embalming substance on my shroud, and do not follow me with a burning torch (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Said ibn Abi Said al-Maqburi that Abu Hurayra forbade anyone to follow him with a burning torch after his death. Yahya said, "I heard Malik disapprove of that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me that Malik asked Ibn Shihab about a man who caught some of the takbirs said over the corpse and missed the rest, and Ibn Shihab said, "He completes what he has missed (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said said that he heard Said ibn al-Musayyab say, "I once prayed behind Abu Hurayra over a child who had never done a wrong action and I heard him say, 'O Allah, give him protection from the torment of the grave (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used not to recite when praying over a dead person (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "The prayer for a dead person can be done after asr and subh if these have been prayed at their times (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "The prayer over Umar ibn al-Khattab was done in the mosque (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Uthman ibn Affan and Abdullah ibn Umar and Abu Hurayra used to pray over the dead, both men and women, in Madina. They would put the men nearer to the imam and the women nearer to the qibla (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar, when he prayed over the dead, would say, "Peace be upon you" loud enough for whoever was near to him to hear (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umm Salama, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to say, "I did not believe that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, had died until I heard the pickaxes fall (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from more than one reliable source that Sad ibn Abi Waqqas and Said ibn Zayd ibn Amr ibn Nufayl died at al-Aqiq and were carried to Madina and buried there (from eng-malik.txt)
ahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that AIi ibn Abi Talib used to rest his head on graves and lie on them. Malik said, "As far as we can see ,it is only forbidden to sit on graves to relieve oneself (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu Bakr ibn Uthman ibn Sahl ibn Hunayf that he had heard Abu Umama ibn Sahl ibn Hunayf say, "We used to attend funeral processions, and the last of the people would not sit until they had been given permission (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Said ibn al- Musayyab from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "No muslim who has three children die will be touched by the Fire except to fulfil Allah's oath (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim ibn Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Let the misfortune that befalls me be a comfort to the Muslims in their misfortunes (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abu'r-Rijal Muhammad ibn Abd ar-Rahman heard his mother Amra bint Abd ar-Rahman say, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, cursed both men and women who dug up," meaning those who dug up graves (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to say, "Breaking the bone of a muslim when he is dead is like breaking it when he is alive." She meant if done in wrong action (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard that A'isha said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, 'No prophet dies until he is given the choice.' " She continued, "I heard him say ,'O Allah, the highest company,' and I knew that he was going (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "The earth eats all of the son of Adam except the coccyx. He was created from it, and on it he is built (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "The Hour will not come until a man passes by the grave of another and says, 'If only I were in his place (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abu'n Nadr, the mawla of Umar ibn Ubaydullah, said that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, when Uthman ibn Madhun's funeral procession passed by him, "You have gone and you were not involved in any of it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abu Hurayra said, "Make your funerals speedy, for it is only good that you are advancing him towards, or evil that you are taking off your necks (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "Zakat does not have to be paid on property until a year has elapsed over it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "Trade with the property of orphans and then it will not be eaten away by zakat (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim that his father said, ''A'isha used to look after me and one of my brothers - we were orphans - in her house, and she would take the zakat from our property (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to give the property of the orphans that were in her house to whoever would use it to trade with on their behalf (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Dinar said, "I heard Abdullah ibn Umar being asked what kanz was and he said, 'It is wealth on which zakat has not been paid (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abu Bakr as-Siddiq said, "If they withhold even a hobbling cord I will fight them over it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr ibn Amr ibn Hazim said, "A message came from Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz to my father when he was in Mina telling him not to take zakat from either honey or horses (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Dinar said, "I asked Said ibn al-Musayyab about zakat on work-horses, and he said, 'Is there any zakat on horses ? (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah from his father that Umar ibn al-Khattab used to take a twentieth from the cereals and olive oil of the Nabatean christians, intending by that to increase the cargo to Madina. He would take a tenth from pulses (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that as-Sa'ib ibn Yazid said, "As a young man I used to work with Abdullah ibn Utba ibn Masud in the market of Madina in the time of Umar ibn al-Khattab and we used to take a tenth from the Nabateans (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had asked Ibn Shihab why Umar ibn al Khattab used to take a tenth from the Nabateans, and Ibn Shihab replied, "It used to be taken from them in the jahiliyya, and Umar imposed it on them (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar would always pay the zakat al-fitr in dates, except once, when he paid it in barley (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "Only some one who makes the intention to fast before dawn (actually) fasts (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that A'isha and Hafsa, the wives of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, also said that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu Hazim ibn Dinar from Sahl ibn Sad as Saidi that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "People will remain in good as long as they are quick to break the fast (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abd ar-Rahman ibn Harmala al- Aslami from Said ibn al-Musayyab that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "People will remain in good as long as they are quick to break the fast (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Humayd ibn Abd ar-Rahman that Umar ibn al-Khattab and Uthman ibn Affan would pray maghrib when they saw the night darkening, before they broke their fast, and that was during Ramadan (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that A'isha, umm al-muminin, may Allah be pleased with her, said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to kiss certain of his wives when fasting," and then she laughed (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Atika bint Zayd ibn Amr ibn Nufayl, the wife of Umar ibn al-Khattab, used to kiss Umar ibn al-Khattab's head while he was fasting, and he did not tell her not to (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam that Abu Hurayra and Sad ibn Abi Waqqas used to say that someone who was fasting was allowed to kiss (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya said that Malik said that Hisham ibn Urwa ibn az-Zubayr had said, "I do not think that kissing invites to good for people who are fasting (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from Ata ibn Yasar that Abdullah ibn Abbas was asked about people kissing while fasting and he said that he allowed it for old men but disapproved of it for young men (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to forbid kissing and fondling for people who were fasting (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used not to fast while travelling (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Hisham ibn Urwa said, "My father, Urwa, used to travel in Ramadan, and we would travel with him, and he used to fast while we would break the fast, and he would not tell us to fast (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Sad ibn Abi Waqqas and Abdullah ibn Umar used to be cupped while they were fasting (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab had sent (the following message) to al-Harith ibn Hisham, ''Tomorrow is the day of Ashura, so fast (it) and tell your family to fast (also) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Muhammad ibn Yahya ibn Habban from alAraj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade fasting on two days, the day of Fitr and the day of Adha (from eng-malik.txt)
Hadith Translation Not available (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "Someone who breaks the fast in Ramadan because he is ill or travelling should make up the days he has missed consecutively (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "If some one makes himself vomit while he is fasting he has to make up a day, but if he cannot help vomiting he does not have to make up anything (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Abu Salama ibn Abd ar-Rahman that he heard A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, say, "I used to have to make up days from Ramadan and not be able to do them until Shaban came (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from his paternal uncle Abu Suhayl ibn Malik from his father that Abu Hurayra said, "When Ramadan comes the gates of the Garden are opened and the gates of the Fire are locked, and the shayatin are chained (from eng-malik.txt)
Ziyad related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Search for Laylat al-Qadr in the last ten days of Ramadan (from eng-malik.txt)
Ziyad related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn Dinar from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said. "Search for Laylat al-Qadr in the last seven days (from eng-malik.txt)
Ziyad related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab used to say, "Whoever is present at isha on Laylat al-Qadr has taken his portion from it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Said ibn al-Musayyab that Asma bint Umays gave birth to Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr at Dhu'l-Hulayfa and Abu Bakr told her to do ghusl and then enter ihram (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi' that 'Abdullah ibn Umar used to do ghusl for ihram before he entered ihram, and for entering Makka, and for standing on the afternoon of 'Arafa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that 'Abdullah ibn 'Umar used to disapprove of anybody wearing a belt or girdle while in ihram (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that al-Qasim ibn Muhammad said that al-Furafisa ibn Umayr al-Hanafi saw Uthman ibn Affan at al-Arj, and he was covering his face while in ihram (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say that a man in ihram should not veil anything above his chin (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say that a woman in ihram should wear neither a veil nor gloves (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that Fatima bint al-Mundhir said, "We used to veil our faces when we were in ihram in the company of Asma bint Abi Bakr as-Siddiq." 20.7 Wearing Perfume during Hajj (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar once entered ihram at al-Fur (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from a reliable source that Abdullah ibn Umar once entered ihram at Ilya (Jerusalem) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, once entered ihram at al-Jiirrana (near Makka) for an umra (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to pray in the mosque of Dhu'l-Hulayfa, and then go outside and get on his camel and when his camel had stood up he would begin to do talbiya (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abd al- Malik ibn Marwan had started to do talbiya at the mosque of Dhu'l-Hulayfa, after the animal he was riding on had stood up, and that Aban ibn Uthman had told him to do this (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim, from his father, from A'isha, umm al-muminin, that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, did hajj on its own (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Abu'l-Aswad Muhammad ibn 'Abd ar-Rahman, from Urwa ibn az-Zubayr, from A'isha, umm al-muminin, that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, did hajj on its own (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim, from his father, that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, would stop saying the talbiya when she arrived at the place of standing (i.e. Arafa) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab used to say, "Abdullah ibn Umar would never say the talbiya while he was doing tawaf of the House (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Yahya ibn Said, that Umar ibn Abd alAziz was once going from Mina (to Arafa) on the day of Arafa and heard the takbir being said loudly, so he sent the guard to shout out to the people, "O people, you should be saying the talbiya (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Abd ar-Rahman ibn al-Qasim, from his father, that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "People of Makka, why is it that people arrive dishevelled while you still have oil on your hair? Go into ihram when you see the new moon (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, did umra three times:in the year of Hudaybiya, in the year of al-Qadiyya, and in the year of al-Jiirrana (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, only did three umras, one of them in Shawwal, and two in Dhu'l-Qada (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Abd ar-Rahman ibn Harmala al-Aslami, that somebody asked Said ibn al-Musayyab, "Can I do umra before I do hajj?", and Said said, "Yes, the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, did umra before doing hajj (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Ibn Shihab, from Said ibn al-Musayyab, that Umar ibn Abi Salama once asked Umar ibn alKhattab for permission to do umra in Shawwal. He gave him permission, so he did umra and then went back to his family, and he did not do hajj (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Sadaqa ibn Yasar, that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "By Allah, I would rather do umra before hajj and sacrifice an animal than do umra after hajj in the month of Dhu'l-Hijja (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Nafi, from Abdullah ibn Umar, that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "Keep your hajj separate from your umra. That way your hajj will be more complete. And your umra will be more complete if you do it outside of the months of the hajj (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Da'ud ibn al-Husayn, that Abu Ghatafan ibn Tarif al-Murri told him that his father Tarif had married a woman while he was in ihram, and Umar ibn al-Khattab had rescinded the marriage (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Nafi, that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "Someone in ihram may neither get married, nor arrange a marriage for himself or others (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Yahya ibn Sa'id, from Sulayman ibn Yasar, that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, was once cupped on the top of his head while he was in ihram, at Lahyay Jamal, which is a place on the road to Makka (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Nafi, that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "Someone in ihram should not be cupped, except when there is no other alternative." Malik said, "Someone who is in ihram should not be cupped except when it is necessary (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik, from Hisham ibn Urwa, from his father, that az-Zubayr ibn al-Awwam used to take dried gazelle meat (safif adh-dhiba) as provisions while he was in ihram. Malik said, "Safif are dried strips of meat (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "There are five trespassers that can be killed in the Haram:rats and mice, scorpions, crows, kites and wild dogs (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Yahya ibn Said from Muhammad ibn Ibrahim ibn alHarith at-Taymi from Rabia ibn Abi Abdullah ibn alHudayr that he saw Umar ibn al-Khattab taking the ticks off a camel of his at as- Suqya while he was in ihram . Malik said that he disapproved of that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ayyub ibn Musa that Abdullah ibn Umar once looked in the mirror for something that was irritating him while he was in ihram (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar did not like people who were in ihram removing mites or ticks from their camels. Malik said, "This is what I like most out of what I have heard about the matter (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that he had heard that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used to say, "Only the House frees a person in ihram from ihram (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "Some one who is detained by sickness before he has got to the House cannot leave ihram until he has done tawaf of the House and say between Safa and Marwa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that A'isha, umm al-muminin, said, "I do not mind whether I pray in the Hijr or in the House." (i.e. praying in the Hijr is the same as praying in the House) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard Ibn Shihab say that he had heard one of the people of knowledge say that the Hijr was only enclosed so that people would go beyond it as they were making tawaf, and their tawaf would therefore encompass the original House (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to hasten from the Black Stone round to the Black Stone three times and then would walk four circuits normally (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that he saw Abdullah ibn az-Zubayr go into ihram for umra at at-Tanim. He said, "Then I saw him hasten around the House for three circuits (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar never used to do tawaf of the House or say between Safa and Marwa if he went into ihram in Makka until he had returned from Mina, nor would he hasten when doing tawaf of the House if he went into ihram in Makka (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that when the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, had finished his tawaf of the House, prayed two rakas, and wanted to go to Safa and Marwa, he would salute the corner of the Black Stone before he left (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father used to salute all the corners when he did tawaf of the House and did not omit the Yamani corner unless he was prevented from it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abu'z Zubayr al-Makki said, "I saw Abdullah ibn Abbas doing tawaf after asr. Then he went into his room and I do not know what he did (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Umar ibn al-Khattab refused to let one man who had not taken leave of the House pass adh-Dhahran, (a valley eighteen miles from Makka) until he had taken leave of it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'n-Nadr, the mawla of Umar ibn Ubaydullah, from Sulayman ibn Yasar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade fasting on the days of Mina (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, sent Abdullah ibn Hudhayfa out on the days of Mina to circulate among the people to tell them those days were for eating and drinking and remembrance of Allah (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Muhammad ibn Yahya ibn Habban from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade fasting on two days - the day of the Id al-Fitr and the day of the Id al-Adha (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr ibn Muhammad ibn Amr ibn Hazm that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, sacrificed a camel, which had belonged to Abu Jahl ibn Hisham, in either a hajj or an umra (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz once sacrificed a camel during a hajj or an umra (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu Jafar al-Qari that Abdullah ibn Ayyash ibn Abi Rabia al-Makhzumi sacrificed two camels, one of them a Bactrian (from eng-malik.txt)
ahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father said, "If necessary, ride on your sacrificial animal, without burdening it, and if necessary, drink its milk after its young one has drunk its fill, and when you sacrifice it, sacrifice the young one with it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, when nicking the hump of his sacrificial animal to brand it, "In the name of Allah, and Allah is greater (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "A sacrificial animal is what has been garlanded, branded, and stood with on Arafa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to drape his sacrificial animals in fine Egyptian linen, saddlecloths and sets of clothing, which he would afterwards send to the Kaba and have the Kaba draped with them (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he asked Abdullah ibn Dinar what Abdullah ibn Umar used to do with the drapings of his animals when the Kaba began to be draped with the kiswa, and he said, "He gave them away as sadaqa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, about sacrificial animals, "Six-year-old camels, three- year-old cows and sheep, or older than these (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar never used to tear the drapes of his sacrificial animals, and he would not drape them until he went from Mina to Arafa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Thawr ibn Zayd ad-Dili from Abdullah ibn Abbas the same as that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab said, "If someone dedicates an animal as compensation, or for a vow, or as the sacrifice for tamattu, and misfortune befalls it on the road, he must provide a substitute (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zubayr al-Makki from Ata ibn Abi Rabah that Abdullah ibn Abbas was asked about a man who had had intercourse with his wife while at Mina before he had done the tawaf al-ifada, and he told him to sacrifice an animal (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Thawr ibn Zayd ad-Dili that lkrama, the mawla of Ibn Abbas, said, (and Thawr believed it to be from Abdullah ibn Abbas), "Someone who has intercourse with his wife before he has done the tawaf al-ifada should do an umra and sacrifice an animal (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Jafar ibn Muhammad from his father that Ali ibn Abi Talib used to say, "The least difficult thing acceptable as a sacrificial animal is a sheep (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Urnar used to say, "The least thing that is acceptable as a sacrificial animal is a camel or a cow (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "The whole of Arafa is a mawqif, except the middle of Urana, and the whole of Muzdalifa is a standing-place, except for the middle of Muhassir (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Talha ibn Ubaydullah used to send his family and children from Muzdalifa to Mina ahead of him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to spur on his mount in the middle of Muhassir over the distance of a stone's throw (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Jafar ibn Muhammad from his father from Ali ibn Abi Talib that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, killed some of his sacrificial animals himself, and someone else killed the rest (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that if Abdullah ibn Umar had finished the fast of Ramadan and intended to do hajj, he would not cut his hair or beard at all until he had done hajj. Malik said, "It is not necessary for people to do the same (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to trim his beard and moustache when he shaved at the end of a hajj or umra (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that when Salim ibn Abdullah intended to go into ihram he would call for some scissors and trim his moustache and beard before setting off and before going into ihram (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from 'Abdullah ibn 'Umar that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "Someone who puts plaits in his hair should shave his head, and do not plait your hair in such a way that it seems you have matted it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Said ibn al-Musayyab that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "Anyone who has braided his hair, or plaited it or matted it must shave his head (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, prayed maghrib and isha together at Muzdalifa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to pray maghrib and isha together at Muzdalifa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to pray dhuhr, asr, maghrib and isha at al-Muhassab, and then enter Makka at night and do tawaf of the House (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Nafi said, "They say that Umar ibn al-Khattab used to send men out to bring people in from beyond al-Aqaba (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "No-one doing hajj should spend the nights of Mina beyond al-Aqaba (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father said, talking about spending the nights of Mina at Makka, "No- one must spend the night anywhere except Mina (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab used to stop at the first two jamras for such a long time that someone standing up would get tired (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to stop for a long time at the first two jamras saying, "Allah is greater", "Glory be to Allah", "Praise be to Allah", and making duas to Allah, but he did not stop at the jamrat al-Aqaba (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say "Allah is greater" whenever he threw a pebble while stoning the jamra (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abd ar-Rahman ibn Qasim from his father that when people went to stone the jamras they would walk both going there and coming back. The first one to ride was Muawiya ibn Abi Sufyan (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to say, "The jamras should not be stoned during the three days until after the sun has passed the meridian (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zubayr that Umar ibn al-Khattab gave the judgement of a ram for a hyena, a female goat for a gazelle, a she-goat less than one year old for a rabbit, and a four month old kid for a jerboa (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father used to say, "For the female of wild animals a cow is given and for the female of gazelles a sheep (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar was coming from Makka and when he was at Qudayd, news came to him from Madina and he returned and entered Makka without ihram. Yahya related the same as that to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Abbas used to say that the area between the corner of the Black Stone and the door of the Kaba was called al-Multazam (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade travelling with a Qur'an in the land of the enemy. Malik commented, "That is out of fear that the enemy will get hold of it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, saw the corpse of a woman who had been slain in one of the raids, and he disapproved of it and forbade the killing of women and children (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that when Abdullah ibn Umar gave something in the way of Allah, he would say to its owner, "When you reach Wadi'l-Qura, (on the outskirts of Madina) then it is your affair (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam that Umar ibn al-Khattab used to say, "O Allah! Do not let me be slain by the hand of a man who has prayed a single prostration to You with which he will dispute with me before You on the Day of Rising (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam that Umar ibn al-Khattab used to say, "O Allah! I ask you for martyrdom in Your way and death in the city of Your Messenger (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Blessing is in the forelocks of horses until the Day of Rising (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said heard Said ibn al-Musayyab say, "There is no harm in placing stakes on horses if a third horse enters it. The winner takes the stake, and there is no fine against the loser (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar used to do kaffara for a broken oath by feeding ten poor people. Each person got a mudd of wheat. He sometimes freed a slave if he had repeated the oath (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, used tosay, "No, by the Overturner of hearts (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar would guard against animals and camels which were young or had physical defects as sacrifices. Malik said, "That is what I like best of what I have heard (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zubayr al-Makki that Jabir ibn Abdullah said, "We sacrificed with the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, in the year of Hudaybiya, a camel between seven people, and a cow between seven people (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, only sacrificed one camel or one cow for himself and his family." Malik said, "I do not know which of them Ibn Shihab said (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "The sacrifice can be done up to two days after the Day of Sacrifice." Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard the same from Ali ibn Abi Talib (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar did not sacrifice for the child in the womb. Malik said, "The sacrifice is sunna, and it is not obligatory. I prefer that anyone who has the price of the animal should not abandon it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Thawr ibn Zayd ad-Dili that Abdullah ibn Abbas was asked about animals slaughtered by the Christian Arabs. He said, "There is no harm in them," but he recited this ayat, "Whoever takes them as friends is from them." (Sura 5 ayat) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Abbas used to say, "You can eat anything that has had its jugular vein cut (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Said ibn al-Musayyab said, "There is no harm in whatever you slaughter with a cutting edge, as long as you are forced to do it by necessity (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yazid ibn Abdullah ibn Qusayt al-Laythi that Said ibn al- Musayyab said, "The slaughter of what is in the womb is included in the slaughter of the mother if it is perfectly formed and its hair has begun to grow (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that al-Qasim ibn Muhammad disapproved of eating game that had been killed with throwing sticks and by clay pellets (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard Nafi say that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "Whether it eats from it or not (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zinad from Abu Salama ibn Abd ar-Rahman from Abu Hurayra and Zayd ibn Thabit that they saw no harm in eating what was cast up by the sea (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shibab from Abu Idris al- Khawlani from Abu Tha~laba al-Khushani that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "It is haram to eat animals with fangs (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ismail ibn Abi Hakim from Abiyda ibn Sufyan al-Hadrami from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Eating animals with fangs is haram. " Malik said, "This is the custom among us (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Zayd ibn Aslam from Ibn Wala al-Misri from Abdullah ibn Abbas that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "A skin when it is tanned is pure (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Jafar ibn Muhammad that his father said, "Fatima, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, weighed the hair of Hasan, Husayn, Zaynab and Umm Kulthum, and gave away in sadaqa an equivalent weight of silver (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that if any of Abdullah ibn Umar's family asked him for an aqiqa, he would give it to them. He gave a sheep as aqiqa for both his male and female children (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Rabia ibn Abi Abd ar-Rahman that Muhammad ibn Ibrahim ibn al-Harith at-Taymi said, "I heard my father say that the aqiqa was desirable, even if it was only a sparrow (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard that there had been an aqiqa for Hasan and Husayn, the sons of Ali ibn Abi Talib (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Qabisa ibn Dhu'ayba that Umar ibn al-Khattab gave the grandfather "what people give him today (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Muhammad ibn Abi Bakr ibn Hazm heard his father say many times, ''Umar ibn al-Khattab used to say, 'It is a wonder that the paternal aunt is inherited from and does not inherit (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Ismail ibn Abi Hakim that Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz freed a christian who then died. Ismail said, ''Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz ordered me to put his property in the bayt al-mal (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Muhammad ibn Yahya ibn Habban from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Do not ask for a woman in marriage when another muslim has already done so (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab had said that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "A woman is only married with the consent of her guardian, someone of her family with sound judgement or the Sultan (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that al-Qasim ibn Muhammad and Salim ibn Abdullah and Sulayman ibn Yasar said about the virgin given by her father in marriage without her permission, "That is binding on her (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Said ibn al-Musayyab that 'Umar ibn al-Khattab decided about the woman who was married by a man and the marriage had been consummated, that the bride-price was obligatory (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Zayd ibn Thabit said, "When a man takes his wife to his house and co-habits with her then the bride-price is obliged (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said "One cannot be married to a woman and her paternal aunt, or a woman and her maternal aunt at the same time (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Said ibn al-Musayyab said, "It is forbidden to be married to a woman and her paternal or maternal aunt at the same time, and for a man to have intercourse with a female slave who is carrying another man's child (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Abbas and Abdullah ibn Umar were asked about a man who had a free woman as a wife and then wanted to marry a slave-girl. They disapproved that he should combine the two of them (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Abu Abd ar- Rahman that Zayd ibn Thabit said that if a man divorced his slave-girl three times and then bought her, she was not halal for him until she had married another husband (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab gave his son a slave-girl and said, "Do not touch her, for I have uncovered her (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abd arRahman ibn al-Mujabbir said that Salim ibn Abdullah gave his son a slave-girl and said, "Do not go near her, for I wanted her, and did not act towards her (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said said, "I have heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, held a wedding feast in which there was neither meat nor bread (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "When you are invited to a wedding feast, you must go to it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibr. Shihab from al-Araj that Abu Hurayra said, "The worst food is the food of a wedding feast to which the rich are invited and the poor are left out. If anyone rejects an invitation, he has rebelled against Allah and His Messenger (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Said ibn al-Musayyab said, "There are three things in which there is no jest:marriage, divorce, and setting free (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Ali ibn Abi Talib used to say that if a man said to his wife, "You are haram for me," it counted as three pronouncements of divorce. Malik said, "That is the best of what I have heard on the subject (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from al-Qasim ibn Muhammad that a certain man had taken a slave-girl belonging to somebody else as a wife. He said to her people, "She is your concern," and people considered that to be one pronouncement of divorce (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Said al-Musayyab and Abu Bakr ibn Abd ar-Rahman said about a man who made a vow to abstain from intercourse with his wife, "If four months pass it is a divorce. The husband can go back to his wife as long as she is in her idda (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had asked Ibn Shihab about the ila of the slave. He said that it was like the ila of the free man, and it put an obligation on him. The ila of the slave was two months (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab said that if a man married a woman, and he was insane or had a physical defect, she had the right of choice. If she wished she could stay, and if she wished she could separate from him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn al-Fadl from al- Araj that Uthman ibn Affan made the wives of ibn Mukmil inherit from him, and he had divorced them while he was terminally ill (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abd ar- Rahman ibn Awf divorced his wife, and gave her compensation in the form of a slave-girl (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "Every divorced woman has compensation except for the one who is divorced and is allocated a bride-price and has not been touched. She has half of what was allocated to her (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab said, "Every divorced woman has compensation." Malik said, "I have also heard the same as that from al-Qasim ibn Muhammad." Malik said, "There is no fixed limit among us as to how small or large the compensation is (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab said that he heard Abu Bakr ibn Abd ar-Rahman say, "I have never seen any of our fuqaha who did not say that this was what the statement of A'isha meant (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "When a man divorces his wife and she begins her third period, she is free from him and he is free from her." Malik said, "This is how things are done among us (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from al-Fudayl ibn Abi Abdullah, the mawla of al-Mahri that al-Qasim ibn Muhammad and Salim ibn Abdullah said, "When a woman is divorced and begins her third period, she is clearly separated from him and is free to marry again (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab and Ibn Shihab and Sulayman ibn Yasar all said, "The idda of the woman with a khul divorce is three periods (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard Ibn Shihab say, "The idda of the divorced woman is reckoned by the menstrual cycles even if she is estranged ." (The reason the idda is normally reckoned by the menstrual cycle is to see whether the woman is pregnant or not) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that the daughter of Said ibn Zayd ibn Amr ibn Nufayl was the wife of Abdullah ibn Umar ibn Uthman ibn Affan, and he divorced her irrevocably and she moved out. Abdullah ibn Umar rebuked her for that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Said ibn al-Musayyab said, "Divorce belongs to men, and women have the idda (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Said ibn al- Musayyab said, "If someone marries a woman and cannot have intercourse with her, there is a deadline of a year set for him to have intercourse with her. If he does not, they are separated (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab said, "I have heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said to a man from Thaqif who had ten wives when he became muslim, 'Take four and separate from the rest (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab said, "If a man does not find the means to spend on his wife, they are to be separated . " Malik said, "That is what I saw the people of knowledge in our city doing." 29.30 Idda of Widows when Pregnant (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Humayd ibn Qays al-Makki from Amr ibn Shuayb from Said ibn al-Musayyab that Umar ibn al-Khattab sent back widows from the desert and prevented them from doing the hajj (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Hisham ibn Urwa said about a Bedouin woman whose husband died, that she was to stay where her people stayed. Malik said, "This is what is done among us (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullan ibn Umar said, "The only place a woman whose husband has died and a woman who is absolutely divorced can spend the night is in their houses (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "The idda of an umm walad when her master dies is one menstrual period (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik said, "This is what is done among us." Malik added, "If she does not have a menstrual period, her idda is three months (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab and Sulayman ibn Yasar said, "The idda of a slave-girl when her husband dies is two months and five days (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'n-Nadr, the mawla of Umar ibn Ubaydullah from Amir ibn Sad ibn Abi Waqqas from his father that he used to practise coitus interruptus (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'n-Nadr, the mawla of Umar ibn Ubaydullah from Ibn Aflah, the mawla of Abu Ayyub al-Ansari from an umm walad of Abu Ayyubal-Ansari that he practised coitus interruptus (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar did not practise coitus interruptus and thought that it was disapproved (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umm Salama, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "A mourning woman can rub her head with lotus leaves and olive oil (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Thawr ibn Zayd ad-Dili that Abdullah ibn Abbas said, "The milk which a child under two years old sucks, even if it is only one suck, makes the foster relatives haram (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "There is no kinship by suckling except for a person who is nursed when he is small. There is no kinship by suckling over the age of two years (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said said that he heard Said ibn al-Musayyab say, "Suckling is only while the child is in the cradle. If not, it does not cause flesh and blood relations (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn Dinar from Sulayman ibn Yasar and from Urwa ibn az-Zubayr from A'isha umm al- muminin, that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, " What is haram by birth is haram by suckling (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Abu Salama ibn Abd ar-Rahman ibn Awf that Abd ar-Rahman ibn Awf bought a slave- girl and found that she had a husband, so he returned her (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade selling fruit until it had started to ripen. He forbade the transaction to both buyer and seller (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Rabia ibn Abd ar-Rahman that al-Qasim ibn Muhammad would sell produce from his orchard and keep some of it aside (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr that his grandfather, Muhammad ibn Amr ibn Hazm sold the fruit of an orchard of his called al-Afraq, for 4,000 dirhams, and he kept aside 800 dirhams' worth of dry dates (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade muzabana. Muzabana was selling fresh dates for dried dates by measure, and selling grapes for raisins by measure (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Musa ibn Abi Tamim from Abu'l Hubab Said ibn Yasar from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "A dinar for a dinar, a dirham for a dirham, no excess between the two (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard from his grandfather, Malik ibn Abi Amir that Uthman ibn Affan said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said to me, 'Do not sell a dinar for two dinars nor a dirham for two dirhams (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that al-Oasim ibn Muhammad said, ''Umar ibn al-Khattab said, 'A dinar for a dinar, and a dirham for adirham, and a sa for a sa. Something to be collected later is not to be sold for something at hand (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abu'z-Zinad heard Said ibn al-Musayyab say, "There is usury only in gold or silver or what is weighed or measured of what is eaten or drunk (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Someone who buys food, must not resell it until he takes delivery of it all (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn Dinar from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Someone who buys food, must not sell it until he takes possession of it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abu'z-Zinad heard Sa'id ibn al-Musayyab andSulayman ibn Yasar forbid a man to sell wheat for gold on delayed terms and then to buy dried dates with the gold before he had taken delivery of the gold (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Sulayman ibn Yasar said, "The fodder of the donkeys of Saad ibn Abi Waqqas ran out and so he told his slave to take some of the family's wheat and buy barley with it, and to only take a like quantity (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yunus ibn Yusuf from Said ibn al-Musayyab that Umar ibn al-Khattab passed by Hatab ibn Abi Baltaa who was underselling some of his raisins in the market. Umar ibn al- Khattab said to him, "Either increase the price or leave our market (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Uthman ibn Affan forbade hoarding (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Salih ibn Kaysan from Hasan ibn Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Abi Talib that Ali ibn Abi Talib sold one of his camels called Usayfir for 20 camels to be delivered later (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar bought a female riding-camel for four camels and he guaranteed to give them in full to the buyer at ar-Rabadha (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from Said ibn al-Musayyab that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade bartering live animals for meat (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Da'ud ibn al-Husayn that he heard Said ibn alMusayyab say, "Part of the gambling of the people of Jahiliya was bartering live animals for slaughtered meat, for instance one live sheep for two slaughtered sheep (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that a man said to another, "Buy this camel for me immediately so that I can buy him from you on credit." Abdullah ibn Umar was asked about that and he disapproved of it and forbade it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab said that he disapproved of one man lending another food on the provision that he gave it back to him in another city. He said, "Where is the transport? (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that he heard Abdullah ibn Umar say, "If someone lends something, let the only condition be that it is repaid (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Do not let any of you bid against each other (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik said, from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade najsh. Malik said, "Najsh is to offer a man more than the worth of his goods when you do not mean to buy them and someone else follows you in bidding (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that Yahya ibn Said heard Said ibn al- Musayyab say, "When you come to a land where they give full measure and full weight, stay there. When you come to a land where they shorten the measure and weight, then do not stay there very long (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he asked Ibn Shihab about a man who hired an animal, and then re-hired it out for more than what he hired it for. He said, "There is no harm in that (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from al-Ala ibn Abd ar-Rahman from his father from his father that Uthman ibn Affan gave him some money as qirad to use provided the profit was shared between them (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that Ibn Shihab said, "I asked Said ibn al- Musayyab about renting land for gold or silver, and he said, 'There is no harm in it (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father used to rent out his land for gold and silver. Malik was asked about a man who rented his field for 100 sa of dates or part of its produce of wheat or from other than its produce. He disapproved of that (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik said, "That is the sunna about which there is no dispute among us." Malik said that he heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab, when asked about pre-emption and whether there was a sunna in it, said, "Yes. Pre-emption is in houses and land, and it is only between partners (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "The testimony of some one known to bear a grudge or to be unreliable is not accepted (from eng-malik.txt)
Hadith Translation Not available (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya said, "Malik said from Jafar ibn Muhammad from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, pronounced judgement on the basis of an oath with one witness (from eng-malik.txt)
From Malik from Abu'z-Zinad that Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz wrote to Abd al-Hamid ibn Abd ar-Rahman ibn Zayd ibn al-Khattab who was the governor of Kufa, "Pronounce judgement on the basis of an oath with one witness (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah from his father that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "Whoever revives dead land, it belongs to him." Malik said, "That is what is done in our community (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Excess water is not withheld in order to prevent herbage from growing (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abu'r-Rijal Muhammad ibn Abd ar-Rahman from his mother Amra bint Abd ar-Rahman that she informed him that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Do not withhold the surplus water of a well from people (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Amr ibn Yahya al-Mazini from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "There is no injury nor return of injury (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Yahya ibn Said from Said ibn al-Musayyab that Umar ibn al-Khattab said while he was leaning his back against the Kaba, "Whoever takes a stray is astray (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that Umar ibn al-Khattab said, "If a slave-girl gives birth to a child by her master, he must not sell her, give her away, or bequeath her. He enjoys her and when he dies she is free (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he had heard that al-Maqburi said that Abu Hurayra was asked whether a man who had to free a slave, could free an illegitimate child to fulfil that obligation. Abu Hurayra said, "Yes. That will give satisfaction for him (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that Yahya ibn Said said, ''Abd ar-Rahman ibn Abi Bakr died in his sleep, and A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, set free many slaves for him." Malik said, "This is what I like best of what I have heard on the subject (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar freed an illegitimate child and its mother (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abdullah ibn Dinar from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade selling or giving away the wala (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "A mukatab is a slave as long as any of his kitaba remains to be paid (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Yahya ibn Said that Said ibn al-Musayyab used to say, "When a man makes his slave-girl mudabbara, he can have intercourse with her. He cannot sell her or give her away and her children are in the same position as her (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, cut off the hand of a man who stole a shield whose price was three dirhams (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from al-Ala ibn Abd ar-Rahman ibn Yaqub from his father from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade preparing nabidh in a gourd or in a jug smeared with pitch (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from Ata ibn Yasar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade preparing nabidh from nearly ripe dates and fresh dates together, and from dates and raisins together (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said "Whoever drinks wine in this world and does not turn from it in tawba, it is haram for him in the Next World (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab said, "The full blood-money for murder when it is accepted is twenty-five yearlings, twenty-five two-year-olds, twenty-five four-year-olds, and twenty-five five-year-olds (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that Said ibn al- Musayyab used to say, "The full blood-money is payable for cutting off both lips, but when the lower one only is cut off, two-thirds of the blood-money is due for it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said, that Said ibn al-Musayyab said, "For every piercing wound in any of the organs or limbs of the body, one third of the blood-money of that limb is payable (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Rabia ibn Abi Abd ar-Rahman that Abdullah ibn az-Zubayr allowed retaliation for a head wound which splintered the bone (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from Muslim ibn Jundub from Aslam, the mawla of Umar ibn al-Khattab that Umar ibn al-Khattab decided on a camel for a molar, a camel for a collar-bone, and a camel for a rib (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said that Said ibn al-Musayyab used to say,' 'When a tooth is struck and becomes black, there is complete blood- money for it. If it falls out after it becomes black, there is also the complete blood-money for it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Said ibn al-Musayyab and Sulayman ibn Yasar said, "The head wound of the slave in which the bone is bared is a twentieth of his price (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father said, "The tribe is not obliged to pay blood-money for intentional murder. They pay blood-money for accidental killing (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ibn Shihab said, "The precedent of the sunna is that the tribe are not liable for any blood- money of an intentional killing unless they wish that." Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said the same as that (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Said ibn al-Musayyab that Umar ibn al-Khattab killed five or seven people for one man whom they had killed secretly by trickery. Umar said, "Had all the people of Sana joined forces against him, I would have killed them all (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "No one leaves Madina preferring to live elsewhere, but that Allah will give it better than him in place of him (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he had heard that when Umar ibn Abd al- Aziz left Madina, he turned towards it and wept. Then he said, "O Muzahim! Do you fear that we might be among those that Madina casts off? (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from a man who said, "Zayd ibn Thabit came across me while I was at al-Aswaf (on the outskirts of Madina). I had captured a hawk. He took it from my hands and set it free (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik said that Yahya ibn Said had related to him that A'isha said that Amir ibn Fuhayra had said at the time of the epidemic, "I have seen death before tasting it, the coward's destination is from above him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nuaym ibn Abdullah al-Mujmir that Abu Hurayra said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, 'There are angels at the entries of Madina, and neither plague nor the Dajjal will enter it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, came in view of Uhud and said, "This is a mountain which loves us and we love it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Salim ibn Abdullah that Umar ibn al-Khattab turned people back at Sargh according to the hadith of Abd ar-Rahman ibn Awf (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "I have left two matters with you. As long as you hold to them, you will not go the wrong way. They are the Book of Allah and the Sunna of His Prophet (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Ziyad ibn Sad that Amr ibn Dinar said, "I heard Abdullah ibn az-Zubayr say in a khutba, 'Allah - He is the Guider and the One Who Tempts Away (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard that this was said "No one will die until his provision is completed for him, so behave correctly in your seeking it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Muadh ibn Jabal said, "The last advice the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, gave me when I put my foot in the stirrup was that he said, 'Make your character good for the people, Muadh ibn Jabal (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Ali ibn Husayn ibn Ali ibn Abi Talib that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Part of the excellence of a man's Islam is that he leaves what does not concern him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from his paternal uncle, Abu Suhayl ibn Malik from his father that Kab al-Ahbar said, "If you want to know what a slave has with his Lord, then look at whatever good praise follows him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said said, "I have heard that by his good character a man can reach the degree of the one who stands in prayer at night and the one who is thirsty from fasting in the heat of the day (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said said that he heard Said ibn al-Musayyab say, "Shall I tell you what is better than much prayer and sadaqa?" They said, "Yes." He said, "Mending discord. And beware of hatred - it strips you (of your deen) (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "I was sent to perfect good character (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ata ibn Abi Muslim that Abdullah al-Khurasani said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, 'Shake hands and rancour will disappear. Give presents to each other and love each other and enmity will disappear (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard that Umar ibn al- Khattab said, "I love to look at a Qur'an reader in white garments (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ayyub ibn Abi Tamim that Ibn Sirin said, ''Umar ibn al-Khattab said, 'Allah has been generous to you, so be generous to yourselves. Let a man wear a combination of his garments (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar wore garments dyed with red earth and dyed with saffron (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that A'isha the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, dressed Abdullah ibn az-Zubayr in a shawl of silk which A'isha used to wear (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn Dinar from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "A person who drags his garment in arrogance will not be looked at by Allah on the Day of Rising (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "On the Day of Rising, Allah the Blessed, the Exalted, will not look at a person who drags his lower garment in arrogance (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Do not wear one sandal. Wear both of them or go with both feet bare (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Ishaq ibn Abdullah ibn Abi Talha said, "Anas ibn Malik said, 'I saw Umar ibn al-Khattab when he was the amir of Madina. Three patches were sewn between his shoulders, one patched over the other (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Said ibn Abi Said al-Maqburi from his father that Abu Hurayra said, "There are five things from the fitra:cutting the nails, trimming the moustache, removing the hair from the armpit, shaving the pubic region and circumcision (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam from Ibn Bujayd (formerly al-Ansari) from his grandmother that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Give to the very poor, if only a roasted hoof (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj that Abu Hurayra said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, 'The muslim eats in one intestine, and the kafir eats in seven (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab and Ali ibn Abi Talib and Uthman ibn Affan drank while standing (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab that A'isha, umm al-muminin and Sad ibn Abi Waqqas did not see any harm in a man drinking while standing (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abu Jafar al-Qari said, "I saw Abdullah ibn Umar drink while standing (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Amir ibn Abdullah ibn az- Zubayr that his father used to drink while standing (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "The food of two is enough for three, and the food of three is enough for four (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr said, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, 'May Allah curse the jews! They were forbidden to eat fat, so they sold it and ate its price (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Isa ibn Maryam used to say, "O Banu Israil! You must drink pure water and the green things of the land and barley bread . Beware of wheat bread, for you will not be grateful enough for it (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Ishaq ibn Abdullah ibn Abi Talha that Anas ibn Malik said, "I saw Umar ibn al-Khattab when he was amir al-muminin being given a sa of dates, and he ate all of them, even the inferior ones (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abdullah ibn Dinar that Abdullah ibn Umar said, ''Umar ibn al-Khattab was asked about locusts. He said, 'I would like to have a basket of them, from which we could eat (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Sadaqa ibn Yasar said, "I asked Said ibn al-Musayyab about wearing a ring. He said, 'Wear it, and tell people that I gave you that decision (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Muhammad ibn Abdullah ibn Abi Sasaca said that he heard Abu'l-Hubab Said ibn Yasar say that he had heard Abu Hurayra say, "The Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, 'Allah afflicts the one for whom He desires good (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Yahya ibn Said from Amra bint Abd ar-Rahman that Abu Bakr as-Siddiq visited A'isha while she had a [health] complaint and a jewish woman was making incantation (ruqya) for her. Abu Bakr said, "Do it (incantation) with the Book of Allah (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that Yahya ibn Said said, "I heard that Sad ibn Zurara cauterized himself because of a pain in the throat accompanied by blood and he died (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar cauterized for the palsy and he had a talisman made for a scorpion sting (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Fever is from the vehemence of the heat of Jahannam, so cool it with water (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Fever is from the vehemence of the heat of Jahannam, so put it out with water (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Abu Bakr ibn Nafi from his father Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, ordered the moustache to be trimmed and the beard to be left (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Nafi that Abdullah ibn Umar disapproved of castration and said, "The completeness of the created form is in the testicles (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he had heard that Abdullah ibn Abbas said, "Equanimity, gentleness, and good behaviour are one twenty-fifth of prophecy (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Hisham ibn Urwa that his father said about this ayat, "You have good news in the life of this world and the next world," (Sura 10 ayat 64), that it was the good dream which the man who was salih saw or which was shown to him (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Musa ibn Maysara from Said ibn Abi Hind from Abu Musa al-Ashari that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Whoever plays games of dice has disobeyed Allah and His Messenger (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik from Zayd ibn Aslam that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "The one riding greets the one walking, and when one of a group of people gives a greeting, it is enough for all of them (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi that when Abdullah ibn Umar sneezed and someone said to him, "May Allah have mercy on you," (Yarhamuka'llah), he said, "May Allah have mercy on us and you, and forgive us and you." (Yarhamuna'llah wa yaghfirlana wa lakum) (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Whoever acquires a dog other than a sheepdog or hunting dog, will have two qirats deducted from the reward of his good actions every day (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, ordered dogs to be killed (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he had heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "There is no Prophet who has not herded sheep," and someone asked, "You as well, Messenger of Allah?" He said, "Myself as well (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi that one time as Ibn Umar was served his evening meal, he heard the recitation of the Imam while he was in his house and he did not hurry from his food until he had finished what he needed (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abu Hazim ibn Dinar from Sahl ibn Sad as-Saidi that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "If it exists, it is in a horse, a woman, and a house," meaning ill luck (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Malik from Ibn Shihab from Hamza and Salim the sons of Abdullah ibn Umar from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Ill luck is in a house, a woman and a horse (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "If there is a remedy that will reach the disease, then cupping will reach it (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab wanted to go to Iraq, and Kabal-Ahbar said to him, "Do not go there, amir al- muminin. There is nine-tenths of sorcery there and it is the place of the rebellious jinn and the disease which the doctors are unable to cure (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi from Abu Lubaba that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, forbade killing snakes which were in the houses (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abd ar-Rahman ibn Harmala from Amr ibn Shuayb from his father from his father that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "One rider is a shaytan. Two riders are two shaytans, and three are a riding-party (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abd ar-Rahman ibn Harmala that Said ibn al-Musayyab heard the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, say, "Shaytan concerns himself with one and two. When there are three, he does not concern himself with them (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he heard that Abu Hurayra said that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "A slave has his food and clothing in the normal manner, and he is only obliged to do such work as he is capable of doing (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he heard that Umar ibn al-Khattab went to the villages every Saturday. If he found a slave doing work which he was not capable of doing, he lightened it for him (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "When a slave gives good counsel to his master and worships Allah correctly, he has his reward twice over (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abdullah ibn Dinar that Abdullah ibn Umar said, "When we took an oath of allegiance with him to hear and obey, the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said to us, 'In what you are able (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abdullah ibn Dinar from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "If a man says to his muslim brother, 'O kafir!' it is true about one of them (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Suhayl ibn Abu Salih from his father from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "When you hear a man say, 'The people are ruined,' he himself is the most ruined of them all (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Let none of you complain about time, for Allah is time (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Yahya ibn Said that Isa ibn Maryam encountered a pig on the road. He said to it, "Go in peace." Somebody asked, "Do you say this to a pig?" Isa said, "I fear lest I accustom my tongue to evil speech (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he heard that A'isha, the wife of the Prophet, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, sent a message to one of her family after the evening prayer, saying, "Will you not allow the recording angel to rest? (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Zayd ibn Aslam from his father that Umar ibn al-Khattab came upon Abu Bakr as-Siddiq pulling his tongue. Umar said to him, "Stop, may Allah forgive you!" Abu Bakr replied, "This has brought me to dangerous places (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Nafi from Abdullah ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Two must not converse secretly to the exclusion of another person (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he heard that someone said to Luqman, "What has brought you to what we see?" meaning his high rank. Luqman said, "Truthful speech, fulfilling the trust, and leaving what does not concern me (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that he heard that Abdullah ibn Masud used to say, "The slave continues to lie and a black spot grows in his heart until all his heart becomes black. Then he is written, in Allah's sight, among the liars (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Abu'z-Zinad from al-Araj from Abu Hurayra that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "One of the most evil of people is the two-faced person who shows one face to these people and another face to those people (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me that Ismail ibn Abi Hakim heard Umar ibn Abd al-Aziz say, "Some say that Allah the Blessed, the Exalted, will not punish the many for the wrong action of the few. However, when the objectionable action is committed openly, then they all deserve to be punished (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik said, "I heard that al-Qasim ibn Muhammad used to say, 'I have seen the people, (i.e. the companions), and they were not impressed by speech.' " Malik said, "He meant that only action and deeds would be looked at, not words (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from his paternal uncle Abu Suhayl ibn Malik from his father that Abu Hurayra said, "Do you think that it is red like this fire of yours? It is blacker than tar (from eng-malik.txt)
Malik related to me from Zayd ibn Aslam that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Give to a beggar even if he comes on a horse (from eng-malik.txt)
Yahya related to me from Malik that he heard that the Messenger of Allah, may Allah bless him and grant him peace, said, "Sadaqa to the family of Muhammad is not halal. It is only people's impurities (from eng-malik.txt)
The same hadith is mentioned through a different chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Thabit that Anas said:We were forbidden in the Holy Qur'an that we should ask about anything from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and then Anas reported the hadith in similar words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted by Muhammad b. Hatim on the authority of Abu Ayyub Ansari (from eng-muslim.txt)
A similar hadith is narrated on Jabir's authority in which the following words are added:I will do nothing more (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been mentioned with a different chain and slightly different wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been mentioned with a different chain with a slightly different wording at the beginning, then follows the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
It Is narrated on the authority of Abu Malik:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: He who professed that there is no god but Allah and made a denial of everything which the people worship beside Allah, his property and blood became inviolable, an their affairs rest with Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Malik narrated on the authority of his father that he heard the Apostle (ﷺ) say:He who held belief in the unity of Allah, and then narrated what has been stated above (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith is mentioned through a different chain except it ends where it mentions that Allah revealed the verses and it does not mention the verses. There is also a slight variation in words (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of 'Uthman that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said. He who died knowing (fully well) that there is no god but Allah entered Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Humran that he heard Uthman saying this:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) uttering these words (as stated above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Umar b. Hani with the same chain of transmitters with the exception of these words:Allah would make him (he who affirms these truths) enter Paradise through one of the eight doors which he would like (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Aswad b. Hilal that he heard Mu'adh say this:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) called, me and I replied to him. He (the Holy Prophet) said: Do you know the right of Allah upon the people? and then followed the hadith (mentioned above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of 'Abbas b. 'Abdul-Muttalib that he heard the Messenger of Allah saying:He has found the taste of faith (iman) who is content with Allah as his Lord, with Islam as his religion (code of life) and with Muhammad (ﷺ) as his Prophet (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:Iman has over seventy branches, and modesty is a branch of Iman (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim reported on the authority of his father that the Prophet (may peace and blessings be upon him) heard a man censuring his brother regarding modesty. Upon this the Prophet remarked:Modesty is part of Iman (faith) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zuhri has narrated this hadith with the addition of these words:He (the Holy Prophet) happened to pass by a mass of Ansar who was instructing his brother (about modesty) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ishaq b. Ibrahim narrates this hadith of the Prophet on the authority of Imran b. Husain, like the one narrated by Hammad b. Zaid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Amr b. al-As is reported to have said:Verily a person asked the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) who amongst the Muslims was better. Upon this (the Holy Prophet) remarked: From whose hand and tongue the Muslims are safe (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Jabir that he heard the (Holy Prophet) say:A Muslim is he from whose hand and tongue the Muslims are safe (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Musa Ash'ari:I asked the Messenger of Allah which (attribute) of Islam is more excellent. Upon this he remarked: One in which the Muslims are safe, protected from the tongue and hand of (other Muslims) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibrahim b. Sa'id al-Jauhari has narrated this hadith with the same words in addition to these. The Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) was asked as to who amongst the Muslims is better, and the rest of the hadith was narrated like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
A similar hadith has been reported on the authority of Anas (with another chain of transmitters) with the exception of these words:that he again becomes a Jew or a Christian (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:No bondsman believes, and, in the hadith narrated by Abdul Warith, no person believes, till I am dearer to him than the members of his household, his wealth and the whole of mankind (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah said:None of you is a believer until I am dearer to him than his child, his father, and the whole of mankind (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Prophet (may peace and blessings be upon him) observed:"None amongst you believes (truly) until he loves for his brother" - or he said "for his neighbour" - "that which he loves for himself (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Anas that the Prophet (may peace blessings be upon him) observed:By Him in whose Hand is my life, no, bondsman (truly) believes till he likes for his neighbour, or he (the Holy Prophet) said: for his brother, whatever he likes for himself (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessing be upon him) observed:He will not enter Paradise whose neighbour is not secure from his wrongful conduct (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another hadith similar to one narrated (above) by Abu Husain is also reported by Abu Huraira with the exception of these words:He (the Prophet) said: He should do good to the neighbour (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith of the Prophet (may peace and blessings be upon him) has been reported by Abu Sa'id al-Khudri in connection with the story of Marwan (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah observed:There have come the people of Yemen; they are tender of hearts, the belief is that of the Yemenites, the understanding (of the faith) is that of the Yemenites and sagacity is that of the Yemenites (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the same hadith which is transmitted to us by another chain of transmitters, e. g. Muhammad b. al-Muthanna, Ishaq b. Yusuf Azraq, Ibn 'Aun, etc (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) observed: There came to you the people from Yemen; they are tender of hearts and mild of feelings, the understanding is Yemenite, the sagacity is Yemenite (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Abu Huraira:I heard the Messenger of Allah saying this: Pride and conceitedness is found among the uncivil owners of the camels and tranquillity is found among the owners of sheep and goats (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of authorities with the addition:The belief is among the Yemenites, the sagacity is that of the Yemenites (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qutaiba b. Sa'id and Zubair b. Harb say:Jarir narrated this on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of narrators (as mentioned above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba narrated the hadith as reported by Jarir with the same chain of narrators with this addition:Pride and conceitedness is among the owners of the camels and tranquillity and sobriety is found amongst the owners of sheep (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Jabir b. Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and, blessings be upon him) observed:The callousness of heart and sternness is in the East and faith is among the people of the Hijaz (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Tamim ad-Dari that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The Religion is sincerity." We said, "To whom?" He said "To Allah, to His Book, To His Messenger, and to the leaders of the Muslims and their masses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. Hatim and others narrate the same hadith of the Apostle (may peace and blessings be upon him) on the authority of Tamim ad-Dari (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umayya b. Bistam narrates the same hadith of the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) on the authority of Tamim ad-Dari (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Jarir that he observed I gave pledge of allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) on the observance of prayer, payment of Zakat, and sincerity and well-wishing for every Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
(Sufyan narrated on the authority of Ziyad b. 'Ilaqa that he heard Jarir b. 'Abdullah saying:I pledged allegiance to the Messenger of Allah may peace and blessings be upon him) on sincerity and well-wishing for every Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. Mihran narrates this hadith on the authority of Abu Huraira and made mention of plundering but did not talk of (a thing) having value (from eng-muslim.txt)
Imam Muslim has reported this hadith by Hasan b. 'Ali al-Halwani and other traditions (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. Rafi', Abdur-Razzaq, Sufyan, A'mash narrated this hadith like one narrated by Shu'ba, on the authority of Abu Huraira tracing, it (right to the Holy Prophet) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) said:Three are the signs of a hypocrite: when he spoke he told a lie, when he made a promise he acted treacherously against it, when he was trusted he betrayed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) observed:There are three characteristics of a hypocrite: when he spoke he told a lie, when he made promise he acted treacherously, and when he was trusted he betrayed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. Mukarram al-'Ami reported that he heard 'Ala' b. 'Abdur-Rahman narrating this hadith with this chain of transmitters and he said:Three are the signs of a hypocrite, even if he observed fast and prayed and asserted that he was a Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Ibn 'Umar that the Apostle (may peace and blessings be upon him) observed:When a man calls his brother an unbeliever, it returns (at least) to one of them (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) observed:Do not detest your fathers; he who detested his father committed infidelity (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd and Abu Bakra each one of them said:My ears heard and my hearing preserved it that Muhammad (peace and blessings be upon him) observed: He who claimed for another one his fatherhood besides his own father knowingly that he was not his father-to him Paradise is forbidden (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakr b. Abu Shaiba narrated a hadith like this from the Apostle (may peace and blessings be upon him) on the authority of Abdullah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Mu'adh narrated from the Apostle (may peace and blessings be upon him) a hadith like this on the authority on Ibn Umar (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abdullah b. Umar that the Apostle (may peace and blessings be upon him) observed on the occasion of the Farewell Pilgrimage Woe unto you distress unto you! Don't turn back as unbelievers after me by striking the necks of one another (from eng-muslim.txt)
Harmala b. Yahya, Abdullah b. Wahb, Umar b. Muhammad, Ibn Umar narrated like the hadith reported by Shu'ba on the authority of Waqid (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) observed:Two (things) are found among men which are tantamount to unbelief: slandering one's lineage and lamentation on the dead (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Jarir that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) observed:The slave who fled from his master, responsibility with regard to him was absolved (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir b. Abdullah reported it from the Holy Prophet:When the slave runs away from his master, his prayer is not accepted (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Anas that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings Be upon him) observed:The sign of a hypocrite is the hatred against the Ansar and the sign of a believer is the love for the Ansar (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Anas that the Apostle (may peace and blessings be upon him) said:The love of the Ansar is the sign of faith and hatred against them is the sign of dissemblance (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) said:A person who believes in Allah and the Last Day never nurses a grudge against the Ansar (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri that the Messenger of Allah observed:The person who believes in Allah and the Last Day never nurses a grudge against the Ansar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zirr reported:'Ali observed: By Him Who split up the seed and created something living, the Apostle (may peace and blessings be upon him) gave me a promise that no one but a believer would love me, and none but a hypocrite would nurse grudge against me (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Tahir with this chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this as narrated by Ibn 'Umar has also been transmitted by Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'mash narrated this hadith with the same chain of transmitters, with this change of words that he (the Satan) said:I disobeyed and I am doomed to Hell (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Jabir that he heard the Apostle (may peace and blessings be upon him) saying. Verily between man and between polytheism and unbelief is the negligence of prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Zubair that he heard Jabir b. 'Abdullah saying. I heard the Messenger of Allah (may peace and blessings be upon him) observing this:Between man and polytheism and unbelief is the abandonment of salat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. Abu Rafi' narrated the hadith on the authority of Abu Dharr with a slight difference (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Muhammad b. Bashshar, Muhammad b. Ja'far Shu'ba with this chain of narrators, with the addition that he pointed towards the house of 'Abdullah, but he did not mention his name for us (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah observed:The best of' the deeds or deed is the (observance of) prayer at its proper time and kindness to the parents (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas narrated from the Apostle (ﷺ) about the major sins. He (the Holy Prophet) observed:Associating anyone with Allah, disobedience to parents, killing a person and false utterance (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has also been transmitted on the authority of Sa'd b. Ibrahim with this chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Mas'ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed:None shall enter the Fire (of Hell) who has in his heart the weight of a mustard seed of Iman and none shall enter Paradise who has in his heart the weight of a mustard seed of pride (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed:He who has in his heart the weight of a mustard seed of pride shall not enter Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Jabir b. Abdullah:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: He who met Allah without associating anything with Allah entered Paradise and he who met Him associating (anything) with Him entered Fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith has been narrated by Ishaq b. Mansur on the authority of Jabir with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abdullah b. Umar who narrates from the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) who said:He who took up arms against us is not of us (from eng-muslim.txt)
Iyas b. Salama narrated from his father that the Apostle (ﷺ) observed:He who draws the sword against us is not of us (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Musa Ash'ari:He who took up arms against us is not of us (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed:He who took up arms against us is not of us and he who acted dishonestly towards us is not of us (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of narrators and the transmitters said:He tore and called (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abu Musa with this change only:That (the Holy Prophet) did not say that he had no concern but said: He is not one of us (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported from Hudhaifa that news reached him (the Holy Prophet) that a certain man carried tales. Upon this Hudhaifa remarked:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying: The tale-bearer shall not enter Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Bishr b. Khalid has narrated this hadith on the authority of Sulaiman with the same chain of transmitters with this addition:Allah shall neither speak nor look at nor absolve then, and there is a tormenting punishment for them (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith has been transmitted by another chain of transmitters with the exception of these words:He offered for sale a commodity to another person (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is also transmitted by Ahmad b. Sa'id, Habban, Sulaiman b. Mughira on the authority of Anas who said:When the verse was revealed:" Do not raise your voice louder than the voice of the Apostle," no mention was made of Sa'd b, Mu'adh in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Anas by another chain of transmitters in which there is no mention of Sa'd b. Mu'adh, but the following words are there:We observed a man, one of the dwellers of Paradise, walking about amongst us (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Minjab b. al-Harith Tamimi with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by another chain of transmitters, (namely) lshaq b. Ibrahim. Ibn Idris says:My father transmitted it from Aban b. Taghlib who heard it from A'mash; then I heard it also from him (A'mash) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed:Verily Allah forgave my people the evil promptings which arise within their hearts as long as they did not speak about them or did not act upon them (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed:Verily the Great and Mighty Allah forgave my people the evil promptings arising in their minds, but they neither talked about them nor acted upon them (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith has been narrated by Zuhair b. Harb, Waki, Ishaq b. Mansur, Husain b. 'Ali (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated with another chain of transmitters with the addition of these words:Allah would even wipe out (the evil committed by a man) and Allah does not put to destruction anyone except he who is doomed to destruction (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith has been transmitted by Muhammad b. 'Amr, Abu Baker b. Ishaq, Abu'l-Jawwab, A'mash and Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Mas'ud that the Apostle (ﷺ) was asked about evil prompting, to which he replied:It is pure faith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted by Urwa b. Zubair on the authority of Abu Huraira (and the words are):The Satan comes to the bondsman (of Allah) and says: Who created this and that? The remaining part of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Yazid b. al-Asamm said:I heard Abu Huraira saying that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed: people will certainly ask you about everything till they will propound: Allah created every thing, but who created Allah? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik transmitted it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that the Great and Glorious Allah said:Verily your people would constantly question about this and that till they would say: Well, it is Allah Who created the creation, but who created Allah? (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters with the exception that Ishaq made no mention of this:Allah said: Verily your people (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by another chain of narrators:Abu Bakr b. Abi Shaiba, Ishaq b. Ibrahim, Harun b. Abdullah, Abi Usama, Walid b. Kathir, Muhammad b. Ka'b, his brother Abdullah b. Ka'b and Abi Usama (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Muhammad b. Hatim, Muhammad b. Bakr, Ahmad b. 'Uthman Naufali, Abu 'Asim, Ibn Juraij (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hasan reported:We were with Ma'qil b. Yasar inquiring about his health that Ubaidullah b. Ziyad came there. Ma'qil said to him: Verily I am going to narrate to you a hadith which I heard from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). Then he narrated the hadith like those two (mentioned above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by another chain of transmitters:Ibn Numair, Waki', Ishaq b. Ibrahim, 'Isa b. Yunus on the authority of A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Islam initiated as something strange, and it would revert to its (old position) of being strange. so good tidings for the stranger (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Verily the faith would recede to Medina just as the serpent crawls back into its hole (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Anas that verily the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The Hour (Resurrection) will not occur until 'Allah, Allah' is not said on earth (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The Hour (Resurrection) will not occur as long as anyone says: 'Allah, Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith has been narrated on the authority of Muhammad b Sa'd and these words (are also there):The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave a stroke on my neck or between my two shoulders and said: Sa'd, do you fight with me simply because I gave (a share) to a man? (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed:What will be your state when the son of Mary descends amongst you and there will be an Imam amongst you? (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:What would you do when the son of Mary would descend and lead you? (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters, Abu Bakr b. Abi Shaiba, Ibn Numair, Abu Kuraib, Ibn Fudail. This hadith has also been narrated through several other chains on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Dharr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) one day said:Do you know where the sun goes? The remaining part of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported:I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) the (implication of the) words of Allah, the Exalted: The sun glides to its appointed resting place. He replied: Its appointed resting place is under the Throne (from eng-muslim.txt)
Yahya b Abi Kathir has reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters and narrated:And there he was sitting on the Throne between the heaven and the earth (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the the outhority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:(the angels) came to me and took me to the Zamzam and my heart was opened and washed with the water of Zamzam and then I was left (at my place) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Shaibani narrated on the authority of Zirr who narrated it on this authority of Abdullah that the (words of Allah):" The heart belied not what he saw" (al Qur'an, Iiii. 11) imply that he saw Gabriel (peace be upon him) and he had six hundred wings (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zirr b. Hubaish narrated it on the authority of 'Abdullah (that the words of Allah):" Certainly he saw of the greatest signs of Allah" (al-Qur'an, liii. 18) imply that he saw Gabriel in his (original) form and he had six hundred wings (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the (words of Allah):" And certainly he saw him in another descent" (al-Qur'an, Iiii. 13) imply that he saw Gabriel (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas that he (the Holy Prophet) saw (Allah) with, his heart (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Ibn Abbas that the words:" The heart belied not what he saw" (al-Qur'an, Iiii. 11) and" Certainly he saw Him in another descent" (al-Qur'an, Iiii. 13) imply that he saw him twice with his heart (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakr b. Abi Shaiba narrated it on the same authorities (from eng-muslim.txt)
Masruq reported:I asked 'A'isha if Muhammad (ﷺ) had seen his Lord. She replied: Hallowed be Allah, my hair stood on end when you said this, and he (Masruq) narrated the hadith as narrated above. The hadith reported by Diwud is more complete and longer (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Dharr:I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): Did you see thy Lord? He said: (He is) Light; how could I see Him? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammad b. Salama narrated it on the same authority and added:He then recited the verse:" Those who do good will have the best reward and even more" (x) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The people said to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): Messenger of Allah I shall we see our Lord on the Day of Resurrection? The rest of the hadith was narrated according to the narration of Ibrahim b. Sa'd (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakr b. Abi Shaiba, Ja'far b. 'Aun, Hisham b. Sa'd, Zaid b. Aslam narrated the hadith as transmitted by Hafs b. Maisara, with certain additions and omissions (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Nadra narrated it from Abu Sa'id al-Khudri who reported it from the Apostle (ﷺ) a similar (hadith) up to the words:" in the mud of the flood," and he did not mention (the words narrated) after it (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith has been by AlMughirah bin Shu’bah attributing it to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is also narrated by another chain of narrators, i. e. Ibn Numair, Abu Mu'awiya, Waki', Abu Bakr b. Abi Shaiba, Abu Kuraib, A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that he had heard with his ears the Apostle (ﷺ) saying:Allah will bring out people from the Fire and admit them into Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammad b. Zaid, reported:I said to 'Amr b. Dinar: Did you hear Jabir b. 'Abdullah narrating from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that Allah would bring out people from the Fire through intercession. He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah repotted:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Verily people would be brought out from the Fire, and they would be burnt except the exterior (surfaces, fronts) of their faces; and they would enter Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: I would be the first among people to intercede in the Paradise and amongst the apostles I would have the largest following (on the Day of Resurrection) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Amongst the apostles I would have the largest following on the Day of Resurrec tion, and I would be the first to knock at the door of Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:Verity the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: There is for every apostle a (special) prayer with which he would pray. I wish I could reserve, my prayer for intercession of my Ummah on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: There is for every apostle a prayer, and I intend (if Allah so willed) that I would reserve my prayer for the intercession of my Ummah on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. Abu Sufyan transmitted a hadith like this from Abu Huraira who narrated it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Every Messenger is endowed with a prayer which is granted and by which he would (pray to his Lord) and it would he granted for him. I have, however, reserved my prayer for the intercession of my Ummab on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: There was for every apostle a prayer with which he prayed for his Ummah and it was granted to him; but I wish, if Allah so wills, to defer my prayer for the intercession of my Ummah on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:Verily the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: There is for every apostle a prayer with which he prays (to Allah) for his Ummah. I have reserved my prayer for the intercession of my Ummah on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated with the same chain of narrators by Qatada (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mis'ar transmitted it with the same chain of narrators from Qatada except that in the hadith narrated by Waki' (the Prophet) said:" He was endowed," and in the hadith reported by Abu Usama (the words are):" It is reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. 'Abd al-A'la reported it to me:Mu'tamir narrated to us on the authority of his father who transmitted it liom Anas that verity the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, and then narrated the hadith like the one transmitted by Qatada on the authority of Anas (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Zubair heard Jabir b. Abdullah reporting it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ):For every apostle was a prayer with which he prayed (to his Lord) for his Ummah, but I have reserved my prayer for the intercession of my Ummah on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:Verily, a person said: Messenger of Allah, where is my father? He said: (He) is in the Fire. When he turned away, he (the Holy Prophet) called him and said: Verily my father and your father are in the Fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith is narrated by Ubaidallah b. Umar al-Qawariri from Abu 'Uwana, who transmitted it to 'Abd al-Malik b. 'Umair on the same chain of transmitter and the hadith of Jarir is more perfect and comprehensive (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated from the Apostle (ﷺ) by another chain of narrators, 'Amr al-Naqid, Mu'awiya b. 'Amr, Abdullah b. Dhakwan, A'raj on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) by another chain of narrators, Muhammad b. Abd al-A'la, Mu'tamir, Abu 'Uthman, Zuhair b. 'Amr, Qabisa b. Mukhariq (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. al-Harith reported:I heard Abbas say: I said: Messenger of Allah, verily Abu Talib defended you and helped you; would it be beneficial for him? He (the Holy Prophet) said: Yes; I found him in the lowest part of the Fire and I brought him to the shallow part (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated from the Apostle (ﷺ) like one narrated by Abu 'Uwana on the authority of the chain of transmitters like Muhammad b. Hatim, Yahya b. Sa'id, Abu Sufyan, 'Abbas b. 'Abd al-Muttalib and others (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported:Verily, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The least tormented of the inhabitants of the Fire would be he who would wear two shoes of Fire and his brain would boil on account of the heat of the shoes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Among the inhabitants of the Fire Abu Talib would have the least suffering, and he would be wearing two shoes (of Fire) which would boil his brain (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Bashir was delivering an address and saying:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: the least suffering for the inhabitants of Hell on the Day of Resurrection would be for the man under whose soles would be placed two embers and his brain would boil on account of them (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:I said: Messenger of Allah, the son of Jud'an established ties of relationship, fed the poor. Would that be of any avail to him? He said: It would be of no avail to him as he did not ever say: O my Lord, pardon my sins on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. 'As reported:I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) quite audibly and not secretly: Behold! the posterity of my fathers, that is, so and so, are not my friends. Verily Allah and the pious believers are my friends (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. Ziyad reported:I heard Abu Huraira narrate this: I heard it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying a hadith like one narrated by al-Rabi (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Seventy thousand (persons) would enter Paradise as one group and among them (there would be people) whom faces would be bright like the moon (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Peoples would be presented to me (on the Day of Resurrection), and then the remaining part of the hadith was narrated like the one transmitted by Hushaim, but he made no mention of the first portion (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated from the Apostle (ﷺ) with the same chain of transmitters by Muhammad b. Muthanna, Ibn Bashshar, Muhammad b. Ja'far, Shu'ba (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is also narrated on the authority with the same chain of transmitters and in the hadith of Abu Usama the words are:" He who performed the ablution well and then offered the obligatory prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Five prayers and from one Friday prayer to (the next) Friday prayer is an expiation (of the sins committed in between their intervals) if major sins are not committed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The five (daily) prayers and one Friday prayer to (the next) Friday prayer are expiations (for the sins committed in the intervals) between them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:Verily the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The five (daily) prayers and from one Friday prayer to the (next) Friday prayer, and from Ramadhan to Ramadhan are expiations for the (sins) committed in between (their intervals) provided one shuns the major sins (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Amr b. Yahya with the same chain of transmitters, but there is no mention of ankles (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:When anyone wipes himself with pebbles (after answering the call of nature) he must make use of an odd number and when any one of you performs ablution he must snuff in his nose water and then clean it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (way peace he upon him) said: When anyone performs ablution he must clean his nose and when anyone wipes himself with pebbles (after answering the call of nature) he must do that odd number of times (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been transmitted by Abu Huraira and Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (both of them the reputed Companions of the Holy Prophet) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said like that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said. When any one of you awakes up from sleep and performs ablution, he must clean his nose three times, for the devil spends the night in the interior of his nose (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:When anyone wipes himself with pebbles (after answering the call of nature) he should do this odd number of times (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah, the freed slave of Shahddad, came to 'A'isha and transmitted from her a hadith like this (which she narrated) from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim, the freed slave of Shaddad b. al-Had said:I was in the presence of 'A'isha, and then narrated on her authority a hadith like this from the Prophet (way peace be upon him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
In the hadith transmitted by Shu'ba these words are not there:" Complete the Wudu," and there is the name of Abu Yahya al-A'raj (a narrator) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Amr reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) lagged behind us on a journey. We travelled (back) and be took him; and then came the time of the afternoon prayer, and as we were going to wipe our feet he (the Holy Prophet) called out: Woe to the heels because of Hell-fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saw a man who did not wash his heel and he remarked: Woe to the heels because of hell-fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:He saw people perform ablution with the help of a water jar and he said: Complete the Wudu for i heard Abu al-Qasim (ﷺ) say: Woe to the hamstrings because of hell-fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Woe to the heels because of hell-fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:'Umar b. Khattab said that a person performed ablution and left a small part equal to the space of a nail (unwashed). The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) saw that and said: Go back and perform ablution well. He then went back (performed ablution well) and offered the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uthman b. 'Affan reported:The Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) said: He who performed ablution well, his sins would come out from his body, even coming out from under his nails (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Apostle (ﷺ) said: Were it not that I might over-burden the believers-and in the hadith transmitted by Zuhair" people" -I would have ordered them to use toothstick at every time of prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Miqdam b. Shuraih narrated it from his father who said:I asked A'isha what Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) did first when he entered his house, and she replied: He used tooth-stick (first of all) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Whenever Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered his house, he used tooth-stick first of all (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported:I went to the Apostle (ﷺ) and found one end of the tooth-stick upon his tongue (i. e. he was rinsing his mouth) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Huddaifa reported:Whenever the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got up for Tahajjud prayer, he cleansed his mouth with the tooth-stick (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported from Hudaifa by another chain of transmitters. Whenever he (the Holy Prophet) got up in the night, they (the transmitters) have not mentioned the words:for offering Tahajjud prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hudaifa reported:Whenever he (the Holy Prophet) got up for prayer during the night, he cleansed his mouth with the tooth-stick (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:Five are the acts quite akin to the Fitra, or five are the acts of Fitra: circumcision, shaving the pubes, cutting the nails, plucking the hair under the armpits and clipping the moustache (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:Five are the acts of fitra: circumcision, removing the pubes, clipping the moustache, cutting the nails, plucking the hair under the armpits (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:A time limit has been prescribed for us for clipping the moustache, cutting the nails, plucking hair under the armpits, shaving the pubes, that it should not be neglected far more than forty nights (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar said:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: Trim closely the moustache, and let the beard grow (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar said:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) ordered us to trim the moustache closely and spare the beard (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar said:The Messenger of Allah (may peace be opon him) said: Act against the polytheists, trim closely the moustache and grow beard (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Trim closely the moustache, and grow beard, and thus act against the fire-worshippers (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Mus'ab b. Shaiba with the same chain of transmitters except for these words:" His father said: I forgot the tenth one (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the use of bone or the droppings of camels for wiping (after excretion) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira said:When any one amongst you squats for answering the call of nature, he should neither turn his face towards the Qibla nor turn his back towards it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar said:I went up to the roof of the house of my sister Hafsa and saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) relieving himself facing Syria. with his back to the Qibla (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada reported it from his father:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: None of you should hold penis with his right hand while urinating, or wipe himself with his right hand in privy and should not breathe into the vessel (from which he drinks) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada reported it from his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:When anyone amongst you enters the privy he should not touch his penis with his right hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
Aba Qatada reported:The Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) forbade (us) to breathe into the venel, to touch the penis with the right hand and to wipe after relieving with right hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) loved to start from the right-hand side for performing ablution, for combing (the hair) and wearing the shoes (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) loved to start from the right-hand side in his every act i. e. in wearing shoes, in combing (his hair) and in performing ablution (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered the privy, a servant and I used to carry a skin of water, and a pointed staff, and he would cleanse himself with water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went to a far-off place in the desert (hidden from the sight of human beings) for relieving himself. Then I brought water for him and he cleansed himself (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted with the same chain of transmitters by Yahya b. Sa'id with the addition of these words:" He washed his face and hands, and wiped his head and then wiped his socks (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mughira b. Shu'ba reported:I was with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) one night. He came down (from the ride) and relieved himself. He then came and I poured water upon him from the jar that I carried with me. He performed ablution and wiped over his socks (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Mughira narrated it from his father:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) wiped over his socks and over his forehead and over his turban (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Ibn Mughira on the authority of his father by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Bakr reported that he had heard from the son of Mughira that verily the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed ablution and wiped over his forehead and wiped over his turban and over his socks (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Ubaidullah b. 'Amr and Zaid b. Abu Unaisa with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shuraib b. Hani reported:I asked 'A'isha about wiping over the shoes. She said: You better go to 'Ali, for he knows more about this than I. I, therefore, came to 'Ali and he narrated from the Apostle (ﷺ) like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira said:When anyone amongst you wakes up from sleep, he must not put his hand in the utensil till he has washed it three times, for he does not know where his hand was during the night (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted from Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zahri and Ibn Musayyab have both transmitted a hadith like this from Abu Huraira who narrated it from the Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: When anyone amongst you wakes up from sleep, he should wash his hands three times before putting it in the utensil, for he does not know where his hand was during the night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to have said:When a dog licks a utensil belonging to any one of you, (the thing contained in it) should be thrown away and then (the utensil) should be washed seven times (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by another chain of transmitters in which there is no mention of" throwing away (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When a dog drinks out of a vessel belonging to any one of you, he must wash it seven times (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The purification of the utensil belonging to any one of you, after it is licked by a dog, lies in washing it seven times, using sand for the first time (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammam b. Munabbih reported:Of the a hadith narrated by Abu Huraira from Muhammad, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), one is this: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The purification of the utensil belonging to one amongst you, after it is licked by a dog, lies in washing it seven times (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to urinate in stagnant water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: None amongst you should urinate in standing water, and then wash in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammam b. Munabbih said:Of the ahadith narrated to us by Abfi Huraira from Muhammad the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) one is this: The Messenger or Allah (ﷺ) said: You should not urinate in standing water, that is not flowing, then wash in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying:None of you must wash in standing water when he is in a state of Junub. And Abu Huraira was asked how it was to be done; he said: It was to be taken out in handfuls (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:A suckling babe was brought to the Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) and he urinated in his tap. He (the Holy Prophet) sent for water and poured it over (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hisham narrated the hadith like one transmitted by Ibn Numair (the above mentioned one) with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Qais daughter of Mihsan reported that she came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with her child. who was not yet weaned, and she placed him in his lap; and he urinated in his (Holy Prophet's) lap. He (the Holy Prophet) did nothing more than spraying water over it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has also been narrated from al-Zuhri with the same chain of narrators. (but for the words):" He (the Holy Prophet) sent for water and sprinkled it over (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Aawad and Hammam reported A'isha as saying:I used to scrape off the (drop of) semen from the garment of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammam narrated the hadith from A'isha like the (above-mentioned) traditions (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition is narrated by Abu Kuraib, Ibn Numair, Abu Tahir, Ibn Wahb, Yahya b. 'Abdullah b. Salim, Malik b. Anas, 'Amr b. Harith on the authority of Hisham b. 'Urwa, with the same chain of transmitters like one transmitted by Yahya b. Sa'id like the above-mentioned (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted from A'mash by Abmad b. Yusuf al-Azdi, Mu'alla b. Asad, Abd al-Wahid, Sulaiman with the same chain of transmitters but for the words:" The other did not keep himself safe from being defiled by urine (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:When anyone amongst us (amongst the wives of the Holy Prophet) menstruated, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) asked her to tie a waist-wrapper over her (body) and then embraced her (from eng-muslim.txt)
Maimuna (the wife of the Holy Prophet) reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) contacted and embraced his wives over the waist-wrapper when they were menstruating (from eng-muslim.txt)
Kuraibthe freed slave of Ibn Abbas, reported:I heard it from Maimuna, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him): The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to lie with me when I menstruated, and there was a cloth between me and him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Salama reported:While I was lying with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in a bed cover I menstruated, so I slipped away and I took up the clothes (which I wore) in menses. Upon this the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Have you menstruated? I said: Yes. He called me and I lay down (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported from 'A'isha that she observed:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in I'tikaf, he inclined his head towards me and I combedhis hair, and he did not enter the house but for the natural calls (for relieving himself) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha, the wife of the Apostle (may peace he upon him), reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) put out from the mosque his head for me as he was in I'tikaf, and I washed it in the state that I was menstruating (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa reported it from 'A'isha that she observed:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) inclined his head towards me (from the mosque) while I was in my apartment and I combed it in a state of menstruation (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Aswad narrated it from 'A'isha that she observed:I used to wash the head of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), while I was in a state of menstruation (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: Get me the mat from the mosque. I said: I am menstruating. Upon this he remarked: Your menstruation is not in your hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered me that I should get him the mat from the mosque. I said: I am menstruating. He (the Holy Prophet) said: Do get me that, for menstruation is not in your hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:While the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in the mosque, he said: O 'A'isha, get me that garment. She said: I am menstruating. Upon this he remarked: Your menstruation is not in your hand, and she, therefore, got him that (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would recline in my lap when I was menstruating, and recite the Qur'an (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported:I felt shy of asking about prostatic fluid from the Apostle (ﷺ) because of Fatimah. I, therefore, asked al-Miqdad (to ask on my behalf) and he asked. He (the Holy Prophet) said: Ablution is obligatory in such a case (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported it from 'Ali:We sent al-Miqdad b. al-Aswad to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to ask him what must be done about prostatic fluid which flows from (the private part of) a person. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Perform ablution and wash your sexual organ (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Apostle (ﷺ) woke up at night; relieved himself, and then washed his face and hands and then again slept (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Whenever the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) intended to sleep after having sexual intercourse, he performed ablution as for the prayer before going to sleep (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Whenever the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had sexual intercourse and intended to eat or sleep, he performed the ablution of prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters. Ibn at-Muthanna said in his narration:AI-Hakam narrated to us who heard from Ibrahim narrating that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:Umar said: Is one amongst us permitted to sleep in a state of impurity (i. e. after having sexual intercourse)? He (the Holy Prophet) said: Yes, after performing ablution (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:'Umar asked the verdict of the Shari'ah from the Apostle (ﷺ) thus: Is it permissible for any one of us to sleep in a state of impurity? He (the Prophet said: Yes, he must perform ablution and then sleep and take a bath when he desires) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported:Umar b. al-Khattab said to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), that he became Junbi during the night. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to him: Perform ablution, wash your sexual organ and then go to sleep (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted with the same chain of transmitters from Mu'awyia b. Salih by Zuhair b. Harb, 'Abd al-Rahman b. Mahdi, Harun b. Sa'id al-'Aili and Ibn Wahb (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to have sexual intercourse with his wives with a single bath (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:A woman asked the Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) about a woman who sees in her dream what a man sees in his dream (sexual dream). He (the Holy Prophet) said: If she experiences what a man experiences, she should take a bath (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith with the same sense (as narrated above) bus been transmitted from Hisham b. 'Urwa with the same chain of narrators but with this addition that she (Umm Salama) said:" You humiliated the women (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated by Mu'awyia b. Salim with the same chain of transmitters except for the words:I was sitting beside the Messenger of Allah" and some other minor alterations (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Abu Kuraib. Ibn Numair and others, all on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters, but in their narration these words are not there:" washed his feet (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa has narrated it on the authority of 'A'isha that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took a bath because of sexual intercourse, he first washed his hands before dipping one of them into the basin, and then performed ablu- tion as is done for prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated It on the authority of Maimuna that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was given a towel, but he did not rub (his body) with it, but he did like this with water, i. e. he shook it off (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a bath because of sexual intercourse, he called for a vessel and took a handful of water from it and first (washed) the right side of his head, then left, and then took a handful (of water) and poured it on his head (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) washed himself with water from a vessel (measuring seven to eight seers) because of sexual intercourse (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hafsa, daughter of 'Abd al-Rahman b. Abu Bakr, reported that 'A'isha narrated to her that she and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a bath from the same vessel which contained water equal to three Mudds or thereabout (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:I and the Messenger (ﷺ) took a bath from the same vessel and our hands alternated into it in the state that we had had sexual intercourse (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:I and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a bath from one vessel which was placed between me and him and he would get ahead of me, so that I would say: Spare (some water for) me, spare (some water for) me; and she said that they had had sexual intercourse (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas said:Maimuna (the wife of the Holy Prophet) reported to me that she and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a bath from one vessel (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a bath with the water left over by Maimuna (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zainab bint Umm Salama (the wife of the Holy Prophet) reported that Umm Salama and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a bath from the same vessel (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas said:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) performed ablution with one Mudd and took bath with a Sa' up to five Mudds (from eng-muslim.txt)
Safina reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a bath with one Sa` of water because of sexual intercourse and performed ablution with one Mudd (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jubair b. Mut'im reported:The people contended amongst themselves in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with regard to bathing. Some of them said: We wash our heads like this and this. Upon this the Messenger (ﷺ) said: As for me I pour three handfuls of water upon my head (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jubair b. Mut'im reported it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that a mention was made before him about bathing because of sexual intercourse and he said:I pour water over my head thrice (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:A woman asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) how he should wash herself after the menstrual period. He (the Holy Prophet) said: Take a cotton with musk and purity yourself, and the rest of the hadith was narrated like that of Sufyan (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by 'Ubaidullah b. Mu'adh with the same chain of transmitters (but for the words) that he (the Holy Prophet) said:Cleanse yourself with it, and he covered (his face on account of shyness) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Asma' b. Shakal came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said: Messenger of Allah, how one amongst us should take a bath after the menstruation, and the rest of the hadith is the same and there is no mention of bathing because of sexual intercourse (from eng-muslim.txt)
The hadith has been narrated by 'A'isha through another chain of transmitters (in these words):I The daughter of jahsh had been mustabida for seven years," and the rest of the hadith is the same (as mentioned above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Hani b. Abu Talib reported:I went to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the day of the conquest (of Mecca) and found him take a bath. while his daughter Fatimah was holding a curtain around him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Maimuna reported:I placed water for the Apostle (ﷺ) and provided privacy for him, and he took a bath (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Abu Fudaik and Dabbik b. 'Uthman with the same chain of transmitters and they observed:Private parts of man are the nakedness (which is concealed) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) observed: Bathing is obligatory in case of seminal emission (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu al. 'Ala' b. al-Shikhkhir said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) abrogated some of his commands by others, just as the Qur'an abrogates some part with the other (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubayy Ibn Ka'b reported:I arked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about a man who has sexual intercourse with his wife, but leaves her before orgasm. Upon this he (the Holy Prophet) said: He should wash the secretion of his wife, and then perform ablution and ofier prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubayy ibn Ka'b narrated it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that he said:If a person has sexual intercourse with his wife, but does not experience orgasm, he should wash his organ and perform an ablution (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ayyub reported that he had heard like this from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: When a man has sexual intercourse, bathing becomes obligatory (both for the male and the female). In the hadith of Matar the words are: Even if there is no orgasm. Zuhair has narrated it with a minor alteration of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Qatida with the same chain of transmitters, but with minor alterations. Here instead of the word - (jahada, (ijtahada) has been used, and the words;" Even if there is no orgasm" have been omitted (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b Thabit reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say this: Ablution is obligatory (for one who takes anything) touched by fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Ibrahim b. Qariz reported that he found Abu Huraira performing ablution in the mosque, who said:I am performing ablution because of having eaten pieces of cheese, for I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Perform ablution (after eating anything) touched by fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa reported on the authority of'A'isha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), saying this:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said. Perform ablution (after eating) anything touched by fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took (meat of) goat's shoulder and offered prayer and did not perform ablution (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took flesh from the bone or meat, and then offered prayer and did not perform ablution, and (in fact) he did not touch water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ja'far b. Amr b. Umayya al-Damari reported on the authority of his father who said:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) take slices from goat's shoulder, and then eat them, and then offer prayer without having performed ablution (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported it on the authority of Maimuana, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took (a piece of goat's) shoulder at her place, and then offered prayer but did not perform ablution (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn 'Abbas on the authority of Maimuna. the wife of the Apostle (ﷺ), by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Rafi' reported:I testify that I used to roast the liver of the goat for the Messenger of Allah (may peace be tipcn him) and then he offered praver but did not perform ablution (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported:The Apostle (ﷺ) took milk and then called for water and rinsed (his mouth) and said: It contains greasiness (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) dressed himself, and then went out for prayer, when he was presented with bread and meat. He took three morsels out of that, and then offered prayer along with other people and did not touch water (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Muhammad b. 'Amr b. Ata' with these words:I was with Ibn 'Abbas, and Ibn 'Abbas saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing like this, and it is also said that the words are: He (the Holy Prophet) offered prayer; and the word" people" is not mentioned (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is also narrated by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: If any one of you has pain in his abdomen, but is doubtful whether or not anything has issued from him, be should not leave the mosque unless he hears a sound or perceives a smell (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters as transmitted by Yunus (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn'Abbas reported on the authority of Maimuna that someone amongst the wives of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had a domestic animal and it died. Upon this the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Why did you not take off its skin and make use of that? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) happened to pass by (the dead body) of the goat which belonged to the freed slave-girl of Maimuna and said: Why did you not make use of its skin? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Abbas said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: When the skin is tanned it becomes purified (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Shaqiq with the same chain of transmitters but with the alteration of these words:He (the Holy Prophet) struck hands upon the earth, and then shook them and then wiped his face and palm (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported:A person happened to pass by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he was making water and saluted him, but he did not respond to his salutation (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hudhaifa reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) happened to meet him and he was (sexually) defiled, and he slipped away and took a bath and then came and said: I was (sexually) defiled. Upon this he (the Holy Prophet) remarked: A Muslim is never defiled (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha said:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to remember Allah at all moments (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) came out of the privy, and he was presented with some food, and the people reminded him about ablution, but he said: Am I to say prayer that I should perform ablution? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:We were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he had come out of the privy. Food was presented to him. It was said to him (by the Companions around him): Wouldn't you perform ablution? Upon this he said: Why, am I to say prayer that I should perform ablution? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went to the privy and when he came back, he was presented with food. It was said to him; Messenger of Allah, wouldn't you perform ablution. He said: Why, am I to say prayer? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered the privy, and in the hadith transmitted by Hushaim (the words are): When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered the lavatory, be used to say: O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from wicked and noxious things (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is also transmitted by 'Abd al-'Aziz with the same chain of transmitters, and the words are:I seek refuge with Allah from the wicked and noxious things (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:(The people) stood up for prayer and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was talking in whispers with a man, and he did not discontinue the conversation till his Companions dozed off; he then came and led the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatida reported:I heard Anas as saying that the Companion of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) dozed off and then offered prayer and did not perform ablution. He (the narrator) said: I asked him if he had actually heard it from Anas. He said: By Allah. yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:(The people) stood up for the night prayer when a man spoke forth: I need to say something. The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) entered into secret conversation with him, till the people dozed off or some of the people (dozed off), and then they said the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:Bilal was commanded (by the Messenger of Allah) to repeat (the phrases of) Adhan twice and once in Iqama. The narrator said: I made a mention of it before Ayyub who said: Except for saying: Qamat-is-Salat [the time for prayer has come] (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted by Khalid Hadhdha with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):When the majority of the people discussed they should know, like the hadith narrated by al-Thaqafi (mentioned above) except for the words:" They (the people) should kindle fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:Bilal was commanded (by the Holy Prophet) to repeat the phrases twice in Adhan, and once in lqama (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had two Mu'adhdhins, Bilal and 'Abdullah b. Umm Maktum, who (latter) was blind (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Ibn Umm Maktum used to pronounce Adhan at the behest of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (despite the fact) that he was blind (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Hisham (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported:When you hear the call (to prayer), repeat what the Mu'adhdhin pronounces (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Mu'awiya narrated it on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When the Mu'adhdhin calls to prayer, Satan runs back vehemently (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like it has been narrated by Abu Huraira but for these words:" He (the man saying the prayer) does not know how much he has prayed (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted with the same chain of transmitters by al. Zuhri as narrated by Ibn Juraij (who) said. When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up for prayer, he raised hands (to the height) apposite the shoulders and then recited takbir (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters that he saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing this (i.e. raising his hands) till they were opposite the lobes of ears (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama reported:Abu Huraira led prayer for them and recited takbir when he bent and raised himself (in ruku' and sujud) and after completing (the prayer) he said: By Allah I say prayer which has the best resemblance with the prayer of the Prophet (ﷺ) amongst you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama reported that Abu Huraira recited takbir in prayer on all occasions of rising and kneeling. We said:O Abu Huraira, what is this takbir? He said: Verily it is the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Suhail reported on the authority of his father that Abu Huraira used to recite takbir on all occasions of rising and bending (in prayer) and narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do like that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubada b. as-Samit reported from the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him ):He who does not recite Fatihat al-Kitab is not credited with having observed the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubada b. as-Samit reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who does not recite Umm al-Qur'an is not credited with having observed the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mahmud b. al-Rabi', on whose face the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) squirted water from the well, reported on the authority of 'Ubada b. as- Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:He who does not recite Umm al-Qur'an is not credited with having observed prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has also been transmitted by Ma'mar from al-Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters with the addition of these words:" and something more (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who said his prayer, but did not recite the opening chapter of al-Kitab, his prayer is incomplete. He repeated it thrice (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Zuhr prayer and said:I felt that someone amongst you was disputing with me (in what I was reciting) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:I observed prayer along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and with Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman (may Allah be pleased with all of them), but I never heard any one of them reciting Bismillah-ir-Rahman-ir-Rahim loudly (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba reported it with the same chain of transmitters. with she addition of these words:" I said to Qatada: Did you hear it from Anas? He replied in the affir- mative and added: We had inquired of him about it (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Abu Talha that he had heard Anas b. Malik narrating this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba has narrated this on the authority of Mansur with the same chain of transmitters, but he made no mention of this:" Then he may choose any supplication which pleases him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mansur with the same chain of transmitters and he made a mention of this:" Then he may choose any supplication which pleases him or which he likes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Mas'ud reported:We were sitting with the Apostle (ﷺ) in prayer, and the rest of the hadith is the same as narrated by Mansur He (also said): After (reciting tashahud) he may choose any prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Mas'ud is reported to have said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) taught me tashahhud taking my hand within his palms, in the same way as he taught me a Sura of the Qur'an, and he narrated it as narrated above (from eng-muslim.txt)
Tawus narrated it on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas that he said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to teach us tashahhud as he would teach us a Sura of the Qur'an (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Qatida with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" Allah, the Exalted and the Glorious, commanded it through the tongue of His Apostle (may peace be upon-him): Allah listens to him who praises Him (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Mis'ar on the authority of al-Hakam, but in the hadith transmitted by Mis'ar these words are not found:" Should I not offer you a present? (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by al-Hakam except that he said:" Bless Muhammad (ﷺ)" and he did not say:" O Allah I (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who blesses me once, Allah would bless him ten times (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When the Imam says:" Allah listens to him who praises Him." you should say:" O Allah, our Lord for Thee is the praise." for if what anyone says synchronises with what the angels say, his past sins will be forgiven (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: SayAmin when the Imam says Amin, for it anyone's utterance of Amin synchronises with that of the angels, he will be forgiven his past sins (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira said:I heard from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) the hadith like one transmitted by Malik, but he made no mention of the words of Shihab (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When anyone amongst you utters Amin in prayer and the angels in the sky also utter Amin, and this (utterance of the one) synchronises with (that of) the other, all his previous sins are pardoned (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Harare reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When anyone amongst you utters Amin and the angels In the heaven also utter Amin and (the Amin) of the one synchronises with (that of) the other, all his previous sins are pardoned (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is transmitted by Ma'mar from Hammam b. Munabbih on the authority of Abu Huraira who reported it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fell down from a horse and he was grazed and he led the prayer for us sitting, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fell down from a horse and his right side was grazed, and the rest of the hadith is the same with the addition of these words:" When he (the Imam) says prayer standing, you should also do so (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) rode a horse and fell down from it and his right side was grazed, and the rest of the hadith is the same, and (these words) are found in it:" When he (the Imam) says prayer in an erect posture, you should also say it in an erect posture (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fell down from his horse and his right side was grazed, and the rest of the hadith is the same. In this hadith there are no additions (of words) as transmitted by Yunus and Malik (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated with the same chain of transmitters by Hisham b. 'Urwa (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led the prayer and Abu Bakr was behind him. When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited the takbir, Abu Bakr also recited (it) in order to make it audible to us. And the rest of the hadith is like one transmitted by Laith (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Hammam b. Munabbih from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (a hadith) like it, except the words:" Nor of those who err, say Amin" and added:" And don't rise up ahead of him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The last glance that I have had of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (before his death) was that when he on Monday drew the curtain aside. The hadith transmitted by Salih is perfect and complete (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted by Sahl b. Sa'd in the same way as narrated by Malik, with the exception of these words:" Abu Bakr lifted his hands and praised Allah and retraced his (steps) till he stood in a row (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Hamza b. Mughira by another chain of trans- mitters (but with the addition of these words):I made up my mind to hold Abd al-Rahman b. 'Auf back, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Leave him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted by Muhammad b. Rafi', Abu'I-Razzaq. Ma'mar, Hammam on the authority of Abu Huraira with the addition of (the word)" prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Do you find me seeing towards the Qibla only? By Allah, your bowing and your prostrating are not hidden from my view. Verily I see them behind my back (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Perform bowing and prostration well. By Allah, I see you even if you are behind me, or he said: (I see you) behind my back when you bow or prostrate (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: Complete the bowing and prostration well. By Allah, I see you behind my back as to how you bow and prostrate or when you bow and prostrate (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Anas with another chain of transmitters, and in the hadith transmitted by Jarir there is no mention of" turning (faces) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Does the man who lifts his head ahead of the Imam (from prostration) not fear that Allah may change his head into the head of an ass? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Does the man who lifts his head before the Imam not fear that Allah may change his face into that of an ass? (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters except for the words narrated by Rabi' b. Muslim:" Allah may make his face like the face of an ass (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The people who lift their eyes towards the sky in Prayer should avoid it or they would lose their eyesight (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:People should avoid lifting their eyes towards the sky while supplicating in prayer, otherwise their eyes would be snatched away (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Ibn Uyaina with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Mas'ud reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Let those who are sedate and prudent be near me, then those who are next to them (saying it tliree tinies), and beware of the tumult of the markets (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Straighten your rows. for the straightening of a row is a part of the perfection of prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Complete the rows, for I can see you behind my back (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Bashir reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Straighten your rows, or Allah would create dissension amongst you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu 'Awana reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw people at the end of the mosque, and then the (above-mentioned hadith) was narrated (from eng-muslim.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The best rows for men are the first rows, and the worst ones the last ones, and the best rows for women are the last ones and the worst ones for them are the first ones (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Suhail with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim narrated it from his father ('Abdullah b. Umar) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:When women ask permission for going to the mosque, do not prevent them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Do not prevent the maid-servants of Allah from going to the mosque (from eng-muslim.txt)
lbn Umar reported:I heard the Messeinger of Allah (ﷺ) say: When your women seek your permission for going to the mosque, you grant them (permission) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zainab Thaqafiya reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When any one of you (women) participates in the 'Isha' prayer, she should not perfume herself that night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zainab, the wife of Abdullah (b. 'Umar), reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to us: When any one of you comes to the mosque, she should not apply perfume (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Whoever (woman) fumigates herself with perfume should not join us in the 'Isha' prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Yahya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that so far as these words of (Allah) Glorious and High are concerned:" And utter not thy prayer loudly, not be low in it" (xvii. 110) relate to supplication (du'a) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah from the Apostle (ﷺ) up to the words:" The traces of the embers," but he made no mention of what followed afterward (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah (b. Mas'ud) said:I was not with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) but I wish I were with him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ma'n reported.. I heard it from my father who said:I asked Masruq who informed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the night when they heard the Qur'an. He said: Your father, Ibn Mas'ud, narrated it to me that a tree informed him about that (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith his been narrated by 'Abu al-Malik with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Jabir b. Samura but with the addition of these words:" (Sa'd said): These bedouins presume to teach me prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported:The noon prayer would start and one would go to al-Baqi' and after having relieved himself he would perform ablution and then come, while the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would be in the first rak'ah, because he would prolong it so much (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. Huwairith reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recite in the morning prayer" Wa'l-lail-i-idhd 'As'asa" (ixxxi) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qutba b. Malik reported:I said prayer and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led it and he recited" Qaf. (I.). By the Glorious Qur'an," till he recited" and the tall palm trees" (l. 10). I wanted to repeat it but I could not follow its significance (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qutba b. Malik reported that he had heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting in the morning prayer this:" And the tall palm trees having flower spikes piled one above another" (Al-Qur'an 50:) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ziyad b. 'Ilaqa reported it on the authority of his uncle that he said the morning prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he recited in the first rak'ah:"And the tall palm trees having flower spikes piled one above another (l. 10) or perhaps Surah Qaf (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the morning prayer" Qaf. By the Glorious Quran." and his prayer afterward shortened (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the noon prayer:" By the night when it envelopes" (xcii.), and in the afternoon like this, but he prolonged the morning prayer as compared to that (noon and afternoon prayers) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the noon prayer:" Glorify the name of thy Most High Lord in the morning prayer longer than this" (lxxxvii) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Barza reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the morning prayer from sixty to one hundred verses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Barza Aslami reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite from sixty to one hundred verses in the morning prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:" And he did not lead the player after this till his death (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jubair b. Mut'im reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting Surat al-Tur (Mountain) (lii) in the evening prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Adi reported:I heard al-Bara' narrating it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that while in a journey he said the night prayer and recited in one of the two rak'ahs:" By the Fig and the Olive" (Su'rah xcv) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' b. 'Azib reported that he said prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he recited:" By the Fig and the Olive (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' b. 'Azib reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting in the night prayer:" By the Fig and the Olive," and I have never heard anyone with a sweeter voice than he (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:Mu'adh b. Jabal said the night prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and then returned to his people and then led them in this prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported:Mu'adh said the night prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He then came to the mosque of his people and led them in prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith like one narrated by Hashalm has been narrated from Isma'il with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: When any one of you leads the people in prayer, he should be brief for among them are the young and the aged, the weak and the sick. But when one of you prays by himself, he may (prolong) as he likes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When any one of you leads people in prayer, he must shorten it for among them are the weak, the infirm and those who have business to attend (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakr b. 'Abd al-Rahman reported that he had heard Abu Huraira say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said like it, but he substituted" the aged" for 'the infirm (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uthman b. Abu'l-'As reported:The last thing which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) instructed me was: When you lead the people in prayer, be brief (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to be brief and perfect in prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was among those whose prayers was brief and perfect (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:I never prayed behind an Imam who was more brief and more perfect in prayer than the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would listen to the crying of a lad in the company of his mother, in prayer, and he would recite a short surah or a small surah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) having said:When I begin the prayer I Intend to make it long, but I hear a boy cry. ing; I then shorten it because of his mother's feelings (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hakam reported:When Matar b. Najiya dominated Kufa he ordered Abu Ubaida to lead people in prayer, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' reported, and he was no liar:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Allah listened to him who praised Him, none of us bent his back till he (the Holy Prophet) prostrated; we then, afterwards, went down in prostration (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' reported:When we were (in prayer) with the Messenger of Allah Allah (ﷺ) none of us benfft his back till we saw he prostrated. Zuhair and others reported:" till we saw him prostrating (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. Huraith reported:I said the dawn prayer behind the Apostle of (ﷺ) and heard him reciting: 'Nay. I call to witness the stars, running their courses and setting" (al-Qur'an, lxxxi. 15-16) and Done of us bent his back till he completed prostration (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Aufa reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite this supplication: O Allah! our Lord, unto Thee be praise that would fill the heavens and the earth and fill that which will please Thee besides them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith with the same chain of transmitters has been narrated by Shu'ba, and in the narration of Mu'adh the words are:" just as the white garment is cleansed from filth," and in the narration of Yazid:" from dirt (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) the words:" And that would fill that which will please Thee besides (them)!" and he did not mention the subsequent (portion of supplication) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abi Talib reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me to recite (the Qur'an) in a state of bowing and prostration (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abi Talib reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to recite the Qur'an, while I am in the state of bowing and prostration (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abi Talib reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me from the recitation (of the Qur'an) in bowing and prostration and I do not say that he forbade you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported:My loved one (the Holy Prophet) forbade me that I should recite (the Qur'an) in a state of bowing and prostration (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted on the authority of 'Ali, but he made no mention of" while in prostration (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:I was forbidden to recite (the Qur'an) while I was bowing, and there is no mention of 'Ali in the chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The nearest a servant comes to his Lord is when he is prostrating himself, so make supplication (in this state) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say while prostrating himself: O Lord, forgive me all my sins, small and great, first and last, open and secret (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him') often said while bowing and prostrating himself:" Glory be to Thee, O Allah, our Lord, and praise be to Thee, O Allah, forgive me," thus complying with the (command in) the Qur'an (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (may peace he upon him) used to pronounce while bowing and prostrating himself:All Glorious, All Holy, Lord of the Angels and the Spirit (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ):I was commanded to prostrate myself on seven bones and not to fold back clothing or hair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had been commanded to prostrate on seven (bones) and forbidden to fold back hair and clothing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:I have been commanded to prostrate myself on seven bones:" forehead," and then pointed with his hand towards his nose, hands, feet, and the extremities of the feet; and we were forbidden to fold back clothing and hair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: I was commanded to prostrate myself on the seven (bones) and forbidden to fold back hair and clothing. (The seven bones are): forehead, nose, hands, knees and feet (from eng-muslim.txt)
It was narrated from Al-'Abbas bin 'Abdul Muttalib that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:"When a person prostates, he prostates on seven part of the body: His face, his hands, his knees and his feet (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Observe moderation in prostration, and let none of you stretch out his forearms (on the ground) like a dog (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters. And in the hidith transmitted by Ibn Ja'far (the words are):" None of you should stretch out his forearms like the stretching out of a dog (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bira' (b. 'Azib) reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said. When you prostrate yourself, place the palms of your hands on the ground and raise your elbows (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Malik ibn Bujainah reported:When the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated, lie spread out his arms so that the whiteness of his armpits was visible (from eng-muslim.txt)
Maimuna reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated himself, if a lamb wanted to pass between his arms, it could pass (from eng-muslim.txt)
Maimuna, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated himself, he spread his arms, i. e. he separated them so much that the whiteness of his armpits became visible from behind and when he sat (for Jalsa) he rested on his left thigh (from eng-muslim.txt)
Maimuna daughter of Harith reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated, he kept his hands so much apart from each other that when it was seen from behind the armpits became visible. Waki' said: That is their whiteness (from eng-muslim.txt)
Musa b. Talha reported it on the authority of his father:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When one of you places in front of him so me. thing such as the back of a saddle, he should pray without caring who passes on the other side of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about sutra of a worshipper; he said: Equal to the back of the saddle (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked in the expedition of Tabuk about the sutra the worshipper; he said: Like the back of the saddle (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) set up (sutra), and Abu Bakr said: He implanted iron-tipped spear and said prayer towards its direction. Ibn Abu Shaiba made this addition to it:" Ubaidullah said that it was a spear (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to place his camel (towards the Ka'ba) and said prayer in its direction (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to say prayer towards his camel. Ibn Numair said: The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said prayer towards the camel (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba narrated the same on the basis of two authorities and in the hadith transmitted by Hakam (the words are):The people began to get water that was left out of his (the Prophet's) ablution (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn 'Uyaina on the authority of al-Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters and he reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) was leading prayer at 'Arafa (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by Ma'mar on the authority of al-Zuhri with the came chain of transmitters, but here no mention has been made of Mina or 'Arafa, and he said:It was in the Farewell Pilgrimage or on the Day of Victory (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:When any one of you prays, he should not allow anyone to pass before him, and if he refuses, he should be then forcibly resisted, for there is a devil with him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Umar by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated from Abu Juhaim Ansari by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Sa'd al-Si'idi reported:Between the place of worship where the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed and the wall, there was a gap through which a goat could pass (from eng-muslim.txt)
Yazid reported:Salama sought to say prayer near the pillar which was by that place where copies of the Qur'an were kept. I said to him: Abu Muslim. I see you striving to offer your prayer by this pillar. He said: I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) seeking to pray by its side (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Humaid b. Hilal on the authority of Yunus (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: A woman, an ass and a dog disrupt the prayer, but something like the back of a saddle guards against that (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray at night while I lay interposed between him and the Qibla like a corpse on the bier (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said his whole prayer (Tahajjud prayer) during the night while I lay between him and the Qibla. When he intended to say Witr (prayer) he awakened me and I too said witr (prayer) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa b. Zubair reported:'A'isha asked: What disrupts the prayer? We said: The woman and the ass. Upon this she remarked: Is the woman an ugly animal? I lay in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) like the bier of a corpse and he said prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:I was sleeping in front of the Mcsseinger ef Allah (ﷺ) with my legs between him and the Qibla. When he prostrated himself he pinched me and I drew up my legs, and when be stood up, I stretched them out. She said: At that time there were no lamps in the houses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Maimuna, the wife of the Apostle (ﷺ), reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said prayer and I (lay) opposite to him while I was in menses. Sometimes his clothes touched me when he prostrated (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said prayer at night and I was by his side in a state of meanses and I had a sheet pulled over me a portion of which was on his side (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:An inquirer asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the prayer in a single garment. He (the Holy Prophet) add: Has everyone of you two garments? (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:A person addressed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said to him: Can any one of us say prayer in one garment? He said: Do all of you possess two garments? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: None of you must pray in a single garment of which no part comes over his shoulders (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar b. Abu Salama reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying in Umm Salama's house in a single garment, placing its two ends over his shoulders (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Hisham b. 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters except (with this difference) that the word mutawashshihan was used and not the word mushtamilan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar b. Abu Salama reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying prayer in the house of Umm Salama in a single garment with its extremities crossing each other (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar b. Abu Salama reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying in a single garment with its ends crossing each other. 'Isa b. Hammad added:" placing on his shoulders (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying in a single garment crossing the two ends (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Sufyan with the same chain of transmitters and in the hadith transmitted by Numair the words are:I called upon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Zubair reported that he saw Jabir b. 'Abdullah praying in a single garment crossing Its ends even though he had the garments, and Jabir said:He saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al Khudri reported:I visited the Apostle (ﷺ) and saw him praying on a reed mat on which he was prostrating himself. And I saw him praying in a single garment with ends crossed with each other (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by A'mash with the came chain of transmitters, and in the narration of Abu Karaib the words are:" Placing its (mantle's) ends on his shoulders" ; and the narration transmitted by Abu Bakr and Suwaid (the words are):" the ends crossing with each other (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah related that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, and he related like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hudhaifa reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying a hadith like that of Yunus (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narratted by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray in the folds of the sheep and goats before the mosque was built (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu al-Tiyyah reported:I heard from Anas a narration like this from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ishaq reported:I heard al-Bara' saying: We prayed with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (with our faces) towards Bait-ul-Maqdis for sixteen months or seventeen months. Then we were made to change (our direction) towards the Ka'ba (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:As the people were engaged in the morning prayer a man came to them. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:They (some Companions of the Holy Prophet) were conversing with one another in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (during his last) illness. Umm Salama and Umm Habiba made a mention of the church and then (the hadith was) narrated (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The wives of the Messenger of Allah (may peace be Upon him) made a mention of the church which they had seen in Abyssinia which was called Marya, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Let Allah destroy the Jews for they have taken the graves of their apostles as places of worship (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Let there be curse of Allah upon the Jews and the Christians for they have taken the graves of their apostles as places of worship (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Alqama and Aswad by another chain of transmitters and in the hadith transmitted by Ibn Mus-hir and Jabir the words are:" I perceive as if I am seeing the gap between the fingers of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as he was bowing (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Ya'fur with the same chain of transmitters up to these words:We have been forbidden from it and no mention of that has been made what follows it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Sa'd reported:I bowed and my hands were in this state, i. e. they were put together, palm to palm, and were placed between his thighs. My father said: We used to do like this but were later on commanded to place them on the knees (from eng-muslim.txt)
Tawus reported:We asked Ibn Abbas about sitting on one's buttocks (in prayer). (ala alqad mein) He said: It is sunnah. We said to him: We find it a sort of cruelty to the foot. Ibn 'Abbas said: It is the sunnah of your Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Yahya b. Abu Kathir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Isma'il b. Abu Khalid (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent Jabir on an errand has been reported by him through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Ibn Abi Shaiba (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada al-Ansari reported:I saw the Apostle (ﷺ) leading the people in prayer with Umima, daughter of Abu'l-'As and Zainab, daughter of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), on his shoulder. When he bowed, he put her down, and when he got up after prostration, he lifted her again (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) leading the people in prayer with Umama daughter of Abu'l-'As on his neck; and when he prostrated he put her down (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada reported:As we were sitting in the mosque, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to us, and the rest of the hadith is the same except that he made no mention that he led people in this prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Hazim reported:They (the people) came to Sahl b. Sa'd and they asked him of what thing the pulpit of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was made, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that he forbade keeping one's hand on one's waist while praying, and in the narration of Abu Bakr (the words are):The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to do so (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mu'aiqib quoted the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) mentioning the removal of pebbles from the ground where he prostrated himself. He (the Prophet) said:It you must do so, do it only once (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mu'aiqib said:They asked the Apostle (ﷺ) about the removal of (pebbles) in prayer, whereupon he said: If you do it, do it only once (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw spittle on the wall towards Qibla, and scratched it away and then turning to the people said: When any one of you prays, he must not spit in front of him, for Allah is in front of him when he is engaged in prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw sputum sticking to the Qibla wall of the mosque, the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) saw sputum sticking to the Qibla of the mosque. He scratched it off with a pebble and then forbade spitting on the right side or in front, but (it is permissible) to spit on the left side or under the left foot (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira and Abu Sa'id narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw sputum, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Apostle of Allah (may, peace be upon him) saw spittle or snot or sputum, sticking to the wall towards Qibla and scratched it off (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I perceive as if I am looking at the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) folding up a part of his cloth with another one (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When any one of you is engaged in prayer, he is holding intimate conversation with his Lord, so none of you must spit in front of him, or towards his right side, but towards his left side under his foot (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Spitting in a mosque is a sin, and its expiation is that it should be buried (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba reported:I asked Qatada about spitting, in the mosque. He said: I heard Anas b. Malik say: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Spitting in the mosque is a sin, and its expiation is that it should be buried (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: The deeds of my people, good and bad, were presented before me, and I found the removal of something objectionable from the road among their good deeds, and the sputum mucus left unburied in the mosque among their evil deeds (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Shakhkhir reported on the authority of his father that he said:I said prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and saw him spitting and rubbing it off with his shoe (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Shakhkhir narrated it on the authority of his father that he said prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he spat and then rubbed it off with his left shoe (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd b. Yazid reported:I said to Anas b. Malik: Did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pray while putting on the shoes? He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd b. Yazid Abu Mas'ama reported:I said to Anas like (that mentioned above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) prayed in a garment which had designs over it, so he (the Holy Prophet) said: Take it to Abu Jahm and bring me a plain blanket from him, because its designs have distracted me (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood for prayer with a garment which had designs over it. He looked at these designs and after completing the prayer said: Take this garment to Abu Jahm b. Hudhaifa and bring me a blanket for it has distracted me just now (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Apostle of Allah (way peace be upon him) had a garment which had designs upon it and this distracted him in prayer. He gave it to Abu Jahm and took a plain garment in its place which is known anbijaniya (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying:When the supper is brought and the prayer begins, one, should first take food (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When the supper is brought before you, and it is also the time to say prayer, first take food before saying evening prayer and do not hasten (to prayer, leaving aside the food) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When the supper is served to any one of you and the prayer also begins. (in such a case) first take supper, and do not make haste (for prayer) till you have (taken the food) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the authority of Ibn 'Umar with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Atiq narrated from the Apostle (ﷺ) on the authority of 'A'isha, but he made no mention of the account of Qasim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said during the battle of Khaybar: He who ate of this plant, i. e. garlic, should not come to the mosques. In the narration of Zubair, there is only a mention of" battle" and not of Khaybar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who eats of this (offensive) plant must not approach our mosque, till its odor dies: (plant signifies) garlic (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Suhaib reported:Anas was asked about the garlic; he stated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said: He who eats of this plant (garlic) should not approach us and pray along with us (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who eats of this plant (garlic) should not approach our mosque and should not harm us with the odour of garlic (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Juraij has narrated it with the same chain of transmitters:He who eats of this plant, i. e. garlic, should not come to us in our mosque, and he made no mention of onions or leek (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: If anyone hears a man crying out in the mosque about something he has lost, he should say: May Allah not restore it to you, for the mosques were not built for this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sulaiman b. Buraida narrated it on the authority of his father that a man cried out in the mosque saying:Who had called out for the red camel? Upon this the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: May it not be restored to you! The mosques are built for what they are meant (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by al-Zubri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zaid b. Aslam with the same chain of transmitters and he said:He should perform two prostrations before the salutation, as it was mentioned by Sulaiman b. Bilal (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Mansur with the same chain of transmitters, with a slight modification of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported by Mansur with the same chain of transmitters, but with these words:" He should aim at correct (prayer) and it is advisable (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Mansur with the same chain of transmitters with the words:He should aim at what is correct and complete (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Mansur with the same chain of transmitters and said:" He should aim at correctness and that is right (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by Mansur with the same chain of transwitters and he said:" He should aim at what is according to him correct (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Mansur and he said:" He should aim at correctness (from eng-muslim.txt)
Alqama reported:He (the Holy Prophet) had led them five rak'ahs in prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Mas'ud reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) performed two prostrations for forgetfulness after salutation and talking (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in one of the evening prayers. And this hadith was narrated like one transmitted by Sufyan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said two rak'ahs of the noon prayer and then gave salutation when a man from Band Sulaim came to him and said: Messenger of Allah. has the prayer been shortened, or have you forgotten? -and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I offered with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) the noon prayer and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave salutation after two rak'ahs. A person from Bani Sulaim stood up, and the rest of the hadith was narrated as mentioned above (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama b. 'Abual-Rahman reported:Abu Huraira recited before them:" hen the heaven burst asunder" (al-Qur'an, lxxxiv. 1) and performed prostration. After completing (the prayer) he informed them that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) has prostrated himself at it (this verse) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by AbuSalama on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:We performed prostration along with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (as he recited these verses: )" When the heaven burst asunder" and" Read in the name of Thy Lord" (al-Qur'an, xcvi) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated himself (while reciting these verses)." When the heaven burst asunder" ;" Read in the name of Thy Lord (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Abual-Rahman al-Araj on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Tamimi with the same chain of transmitters except for this that they made no mention of:" Behind Abu'l-Qasim" (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another version on the authority of Ibn Umar says:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat for tashahhud, he placed his left hand on his left knee and placed his right hand on his right knee, and he formed a ring like (fifty-three) and pointed with his finger of attestation (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ma'mar reported:There was an Amir in Mecca who pronounced taslim twice. Abdullah said: Where did he get this sunnah? Al-Hakam said: There is a hadith to the effect that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did like It (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported:An Amir or a person pronounced taslim twice. 'Abdullah said: Where did he get this sunnah? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amir b. Sa'd reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (may peace be open him) pronouncing taslim on his right and on his left till I saw the whiteness of his cheek (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:We used to know that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had finished his prayer when we heard the takbir (Allah-O-Akbar) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:We knew the finishing of the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) through takbir. 'Amr (b. Dinar) said: I made a mention of it to Abu Mas'ud. hue he rejected it and said: I never narrated it to you. 'Amr said: He did narrate it before this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:Dhikr (mentioning the name of Allah) in a loud voice after obligatory prayers was (a common practice) during the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ; and when I heard that I came to knew that they (the people) had finished the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported. I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) seeking refuge from the torment of the grave after this (after the revelation) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Masruq reported this hadith on the authority of 'A'isha who said:Never did he (the Holy Prophet) say prayer after this in which I did not hear him seeking refuge from the torment of the grave (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:1 heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) seeking refuge from the trial of Dajjal (Antichrist) in prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said: O Allah! I seek refuge with Thee from the torment of the grave, and the torment of Hell, and the trial of life and death and the mischief of Masih al-Dajjal (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Ibn Tawus from his father on the authority of AbuHuraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by A'raj on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to seek refuge from the torment of the grave, torment of Hell and the trial of Dajjal (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Numair narrated it with the same chain of transmitters and said:O Possessor of Glory and Honour (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Abdullah b. Harith on the authority of A'isha except for the words that he (the Holy Prophet) used to say:" 0 Possessor of Glory and Honour (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Mughira b. Shu'ba with another chain of transmitters. Abu Bakr and Abu Kuraib narrated in their narration (that Warrad reported):Mughira gave me dictation of it and 1 wrote it to Mu'awiya (from eng-muslim.txt)
Warrad, the scribe of Mughira b. Shu'ba, reported:Mu'awiya wrote to Mughira (the contents) of the hadith as transmitted by Mansur and A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Zubair reported:I heard Abdullah b. Zubair addressing (people) on the pulpit and saying: When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pronounced salutation at the end of the prayer or prayers, and then he made a mention of the hadith as transmitted by Hisham b. 'Urwa (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up for the second rak'ah he opened it with the recitation of the praise of Allah, the Lord of universe (al-Fatiha), and he did not observe silence (before the recitation of al-Fatiha) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: When the Iqama has been pronounced for prayer, do not go running to it, but go walking in tranquillity and pray what you are in time for, and complete what you have missed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported ahadith from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and one of them is that the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon), said:When the call is made for prayer come to it walking with tranquillity, and pray what you are in time for, and complete what you have missed (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shaiban with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: When the Iqama is pronounced do not get up till you see me Ibn Hatim was in doubt whether it was said:" When the Iqama is pronounced" or" When call is made (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama reported on the authority of Abu Huraira that when Iqama was pronounced for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), the people occupied their places in the rows before the Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) stood up at his place (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:Bilal summoned to prayer as the sun declined but did not pronounce Iqama till the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out and the Iqama was pronounced on seeing him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:He who finds a rak'ah of the prayer, he in fact finds the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:He who finds one rak'ah of the prayer with the Imam, he in fact finds the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Malik and there is no mention of" along with the Imam" and In the hadith transmitted by Abdullah the words are:" he in fact finds the entire prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who finds one rak'ah at dawn before the rising of the sun, he in fact finds the dawn prayer. and he who finds one rak'ah of the afternoon prayer before sunset, he in fact finds the afternoon prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Abu Huraira with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who finds a prostration before sunset or at dawn (prayer) before the rising (of the sun) he in fact finds that (prayer), and prostration implies a rak'ah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by Ma'mar with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwah (also) said:'A'isha?, the wife of the Apostle (ﷺ) narrated it to me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the afternoon prayer, when the light of the sun was there in her apartment before it went out (of it) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) said the afternoon" prayer as the sun shone in my apartment, and the afternoon shadow did not extend further. Abu Bakr said: The afternoon shadow did not appear to extend further (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha, the wife of the Apostle (ﷺ), said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the afternoon prayer (at the time) when the sun shone in her apartment and its shadow did not extend beyond her apartment (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the afternoon prayer (at a time) when the (light) of the sun was there in my apartment (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakr b Abu Shaiban and Yahya b Abu Bukair both of them narrated this hadith with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah narrated it on the authority of his father Yahya:Knowledge cannot be acquired with sloth (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (may peace he upon him) said:When it is very hot, say (the noon prayer) when the extreme heat passes away, for intensity of heat is from the exhalation of Hell (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another hadith like this has been transmitted by Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:This heat is from the exhalation of Hell-fire, so delay the prayer till it is cool (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammam b. Munabbih reported:This is what Abu Huraira narrated to us from the Prophet and he transmitted some ahadith-one of them was that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Let the heat become less severe before prayer, for the intensity of heat is from the exhalation of Hell (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to offer the noon prayer when the sun declined (from eng-muslim.txt)
Khabbab reported:We complained to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (the difficulty of) saying prayer on the intensely heated (ground or sand), but he paid no heed to our complaint (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:We used to say (the noonprayer) with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in the intense heat, but when someone amongst us found it hard to place his forehead on the ground, he spread his cloth and prostrated on it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray the afternoon prayer when the sun was high and bright, then one would go off to al-'Awali and get there while the sun was still high. Ibn Qutaiba made no mention of" one would go off to al-'Awali (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to offer the afternoon prayer like the one narrated above has been transmitted by Anas b. Malik by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:We used to offer the 'Asr prayer, then one would go to Quba' and reach there and the sun would be still high (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:We used to offer the afternoon prayer (at such a time) that a person would go to Bani 'Amr b. Auf and he would find them busy offering the afternoon prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rafi' b. Khadij reported:We used to say the afternoon prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and then the camel was slaughtered and ten parts of it were distributed; then it was cooked and then we ate this cooked meat before the sinking of the sun (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by 'Auza'i with the same chain of transmitters:We used to slaughter the camel during the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) after the 'Asr prayer, but he made no mention of:" We used to pray along with him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:He who misses the afternoon prayer, it is as though he has been deprived of his family and his property (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated as Marfu by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah relates on the authority of his father. He who missed his afternoon prayer it is as though he was deprived of his family and property (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported:When it was the day (of the Battle) of Ahzab, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: May Allah fill their graves and houses with fire, as they detained us and diverted us from the middle prayer, till the sun set (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: On the day (of the Battle) of Ahzab we were diverted from the middle prayer, till the sun set. May Allah fill their graves or their houses, or their stomachs with fire. The narrator is in doubt about" houses" and" stomachs (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has heed narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters. And he said:Their houses and their graves (be filled with fire), and did not express doubt over the words," houses" and" graves (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said on the day (of the Battle) of Ahzab: They diverted us from saying the middle prayer, i. e. the 'Asr prayer. May Allah fill their houses and graves with fire; he then observed this prayer between the evening prayer and the night prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by Yahya b. Abd Kathir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Angels take turns among you by night and by day, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakr reported on the authority of his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:He who observed two prayers at two cool (hours) would enter Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by the same chain of transmitters by Hammam, and said about Abu Bakr that he was Ibn Abu Musa (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salama b. al-Akwa' reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray the evening prayer when the sun had set and disappeared (behind the horizon) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rafi' b. Khadij reported:We used to observe the evening prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and then one of us would go away and he could see the (distant) place where his arrow would fall (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this, i. e." We used to observe evening prayer...." so on and so forth, has been narrated by Rafi' b. Khadij by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters, but therein no mention has been made of the words of al-Zuhri:It was narrated to me, and that which followed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:We waited for the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon hi n) one night, till it was about midnight. He (the Holy Prophet) came and observed prayer and then turned his face towards us, as it I was seeing the lustre of the silver ring on his finger (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Qurra with the same chain of transmitters, but therein he did not mention:" He turned his face towards us (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) postponed the last 'Isha' prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe prayers like your prayers, but he would delay the prayer after nightfall to a little after the time you observed it, and he would shorten the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Let the bedouin not gain upper hand over you in regard to the name of your prayer. See I (The night prayer should be called) 'Isya' (and the bedouins call it Atama (because) they milk their camels late (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The believing women used to pray the morning prayer with the Messenger of Allah and then return wrapped in their mantles. No one could recognise them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. 'Amr al-Hasan b. 'All reported:Hajjaj used to delay the prayers, and so we asked Jabir b. 'Abdullah, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Prayer said in a congregation is twenty-five degrees more excellent than prayer said by a single person (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira with another chain of transmitters with a very slight change of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Prayer said in a congregation is equivalent to twenty-five (prayers) as compared with the prayer said by a single person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) said: Prayer along with the Imam is twenty-five times more excellent than prayer said by a single person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) assaying:Prayer said in a congregation is twenty-seven degrees more excellent than prayer said by a single person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The prayer of a person in congregation is twenty-seven times in excess to the prayer said alone (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Numair reported it on the authority of his father (a preference of) more than twenty (degrees) and Abu Bakr in his narration (has narrated it) twenty- seven degrees (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as some and twenty (degrees) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying about people who are absent from Jumu'a prayer:I intend that I should command a person to lead people in prayer, and then burn those persons who absent themselves from Jumu'a prayer in their houses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sha'tha' al-Muharibi reported on the authority of his father, who said:I heard it from Abu Huraira that he saw a person getting out of the mosque after the call to prayer had been announced. Upon this he remarked: This (man) disobeyed Abu'l-Qasim (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by the chain of transmitters by Abu Sahl 'Uthman b. Hakim (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Jundab b. Sufyan in from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with the same chain of transmitters, but this has not been mentioned:" He would throw him in fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. al-Mukhtar heard Musa b. Anas narrating on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led him, his mother or his aunt in prayer. He made me, stand on his right side and made the woman stand, behind us (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has also been narrated by Shu'ba with this chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Maimuna, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said prayer while I was by his side, and at times when he prostrated his cloth touched me, and he prayed on a small mat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported that he went to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and found him observing prayer on a mat and prostrating on that (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith having the same meaning (as mentioned above) has been transmitted by A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:Everyone among you is constantly in prayer so long as the prayer detains him (for this noble objective) and nothing prevents him to return to his family but the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: Anyone amongst you who sat in a place of worship waiting for the prayer is in prayer and his ablution is not broken, the angels invoke blessing upon him (in these words): O Allah! pardon him. O Allah! have mercy upon him (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Hammam b. Munabbih on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Taimi with the same chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by 'Asim with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The similitude of five prayers is like an overflowing river passing by the gate of one of you in which he washes five times daily Hasan said: No filthiness can remain on him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ata' b. Yasar reported, on the authority of Abu Huraira, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:He who went towards the mosque in the morning or evening, Allah would arrange a feast for him morning or evening in Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Simak narrated on the authority of Jabir b. Samura that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed the dawn prayer, he sat at the place of worship till the sun had risen enough (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Simak with the same chain of transmitters, but no mention has been made of, enough (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The parts of land dearest to Allah are its mosques, and the parts most hateful to Allah are markets (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When there are three persons, one of them should lead them. The one among them most worthy to act as Imam is one who is best versed in the Qur'an (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Qatida with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Sa'id al-Khudri by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by A'mash by the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Ayyub with the same chain of narrator (from eng-muslim.txt)
Malik b. Huwairith Abu Sulaiman reported:I came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) along with other persons and we were young men of nearly equal age, and the rest of the hadith was transmitted like the hadith narrated before (from eng-muslim.txt)
Malik b Huwairith reported:I came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) along with a companion of mine, and when we intended to return from him, he said: When there is time for prayer, announce prayer, pronounce Iqama, and the oldest amongst you should lead the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated with the same chain of transmitters, but al-Hadra' made this addition:" They both were equal in recitation (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters up to the words:" And cause them a famine like that (which broke out at the time) of Joseph," but the subsequent portion was not mentioned (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad reported:I asked Anas whether the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Qunut in the dawn prayer. He said: Yes, (he did so) after the ruku', for a short while (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Qunut for a month in the dawn prayer after ruku' and invoked curse upon Ri'l, Dhakwan, and said that 'Usayya had disobeyed Allah and His Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Qunut for a month in the dawn prayer after ruku' and invoked curse upon Bani Usayya (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Anas with another chain of transmitters and with minor additions (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Qunut for one month Invoking curse upon Ri'l, Dhakwan, 'Usayya. those who disobeyed Allah and His Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Anas from the Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Qunut for one month invoking curse upon some tribes of Arabia (those who were responsible for the murders in Bi'r Ma'una and Raji'), but then abandoned it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bari' b. 'Azib reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Qunut in the morning and evening (prayers) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bari' reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed Qunut in the dawn and evening (prayers) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Khufaf b. Ima' except this that he did not mention (these words):" cursing of unbelievers got a sanctions (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada reported that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in a journey he got down for rest at night, and he used to lie down on his right side, and when he lay down for rest before the dawn, he used to stretch his forearm and place his head over his palm (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatada reported from Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:He who forgets the prayer should say it when he remembers it, there is no explation for it, except this. Qatada said: (Allah says)" And observe prayer for remembrance of Me (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Qatada, but here no mention has been made of" There is no explation for it except this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatada narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:He who forgets the prayer, or he slept (and it was omitted), its expiation is (only) that he should observe it when he remembers it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatada reported it on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:When any one of you omits the prayer due to sleep or he forgets it, he should observe it when he remembers it, for Allah has said:" Observe prayer for remembrance of Me (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said Allah prescribed the prayer as two rak'ahs, then it was completed (to four rak'ahs) at the place of residence, but was retained in the same position in journey as it was first made obligatory (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ya'la b. Umayya reported:I said to 'Umar b. al-Khattab, and the rest of the hadlth is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:Allah has prescribed the prayer through the word of your Prophet (ﷺ) as four rak'ahs when resident, two when travelling, and one when danger is present (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:Allah has prescribed the prayer by the tongue of your Apostle (ﷺ) as two rak'ahs for the traveller, four for the resident, and one in danger (from eng-muslim.txt)
Musa b. Salama Hudhali said:I asked Ibn 'Abbas: How should I say prayer when I am in Mecca, and when I do not pray along with the Imam? He said: Two rak'ahs (of prayer) is the Sunnah of Abu'l-Qasim (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said four rak'ahs in the noon prayer while at Medina, but he offered two rak'ahs in the afternoon prayer at Dhu'l-Hulaifa (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik is reported to have said:I observed four rak'ahs in the noon prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at Medina, and said two rak'ahs in the afternoon prayer at Dhu'l-Hulaifa (from eng-muslim.txt)
Yahya b. Yazid al-Huna'i reported:I asked Anas b. Malik about shortening of prayer. He said: When the Messenger of' Allah (ﷺ) had covered a distance of three miles or three farsakh (Shu'ba, one of the narrators, had some doubt about it) he observed two rak'ahs (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Shu'ba with the same chain of narrators and it is narrated from Simt, and the name of Shurahbil has not been mentioned, and he said that he had gone to a place called Dumin, situated at a distance of eighteen miles from Hims (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:We went out from Medina to Mecca with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he prayed two rak'ahs at each time of prayer till we returned to Medina. I said: For how long did he stay in Mecca? He said: (For) ten (days) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Anas by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Yahya b. Abu Ishaq reported:I heard Anas b. Malik say: We went out for Pilgrimage from Medina. The rest is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Anas, but no mention has been made of Pilgrimage (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported by Zuhri, with the same chain of transmitters, and in it mention was made of Mina only, but not of other places (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but no mention has been made of Mina, but they (the narrators) only said:He prayed while travelling (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Haritha b. Wahb reported:I prayed with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) two rak'ahs and most of them offered two rak'ahs only in Mina, while the people felt secure (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar announced Adhan for prayer on a cold, windy night. Then added:Pray in your dwellings; and then said: When it was a cold, rainy night, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to command the Mu'adhdhin to say" Pray in your dwellings (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that he summoned (people) to prayer at a place (known as) Dajnan, and the rest of the hadith is the same, and then said:Pray in your dwellings, but he did not repeat for the second time words of Ibn 'Umar (Pray in your dwellings) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:We set cut with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on a journey when it began to rain. Upon this he said: He who desires may pray in his dwelling (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ayyub and 'Asim al-Ahwal with the same chain of transmitters, but in this hadith it is not recorded:" i. e. the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this that Ibn 'Abbas ordered his Mu'adhdhin (to summon people to prayer and then make announcement to say prayer in their houses) on Friday which was a rainy day, has been transmitted by 'Abdullah b. Harith. Wuhaib, however, says that he did not hear it from him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say Nafl prayer on (the back of) his camel in whatever direction it took him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that the Apostle (ﷺ) used to pray on (the back of) his camel in whatever direction it took him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say prayer on his camel while coming from Mecca to Medina, in whatever direction his face had turned; and its was (in this context) that this verse was revealed:" So whether you turn thither is Allah's face" (ii) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters and in the one narrated by Ibn Mubarak and Ibn Abu Za'ida (these words are narrated). Ibn 'Umar then recited:" Whether you turn thither is Allah's face," and it was revealed in this context (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying (Nafl prayer) on a donkey's back while his face was turned towards Khaibar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Dinar reported on the authority of Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe prayer on his ride (no matter) in which direction it had its face turned. 'Abdullah b. Dinar said that Ibn 'Umar used to do like that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe Witr prayer on his ride (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Amir b. Rabi'a has reported on the authority of his father that he had seen the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observing Nafl player at night on a journey on the back of his ride in whichever direction it turned its face (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in a state of hurry on a journey, he combined the sunset and 'Isha' prayers (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim reported from his father to be saying:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) combining the sunset and Isha' prayers when he was in a hurry on a journey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim b. 'Abdullah reported that his father had said:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) delaying the sunset prayer till he would combine it with the 'Isha' when he hastened to set out on a journey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) intended to combine two prayers on a journey, he delayed the noon prayer till came the early time of the afternoon prayer, and then combined the two (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed the noon and afternoon prayers together, and the sunset and Isha' prayers together without being in a state of fear or in a state of journey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mu'adh reported:We set out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the Tabuk expedition, and he observed the noon and afternoon prayers together and the sunset and 'Isha' prayers together (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed in Medina seven (rak'ahs) and eight (rak'ahs), i. e. (be combined) the noon and afternoon prayers (eight rak'ahs) and the sunset and 'Isha' prayers (seven rak'ahs) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported:None of you should give a share to Satan out of your self. He should not deem that it is necessary for him to turn but to the right only (after prayer). I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) turning to the left (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by A'mash, with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Suddi reported:I asked Anas how I should turn-to the right or to the left-when I say my prayers. He said: I have very often seen the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) turning to the right (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to turn to the right (at the end of the prayer) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by Mis'ar with the same chain of transmitters, but he made no mention of:" His face would turn towards us (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When the prayer commences then there is no prayer (valid), but the obligatory prayer. This hadith has been narrated by Warqa' with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:When the prayer commences, there is no prayer but the obligatory one (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported by Ishaq with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Huraira with another chain of transmitters. Hammad (one of the narrators) said:I then met 'Amr (the other narrator) and he narrated it to me, but it was not transmitted directly from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Buhaina reported:The dawn prayer had commenced when the Messen- ger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a person observing prayer, whereas the Mu'adhdhin had pronounced the Iqama. Upon this he (the Holy Prophet) remarked: Do you say four (rak'ahs) of Fard in the dawn prayer? (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) by Abu Usaid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada (a Companion of the Prophet) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you enters the mosque, he should observe two rak'ahs (of Nafl prayer) before sitting (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) owed me a debt; he paid me back and made an addition (of this). I entered the mosque and he (the Holy Prophet) said to me: Observe two rak'ahs of prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) bought a camel from me. When he came back to Medina, he ordered me to come to the mosque and observed two rak'ahs of prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ka'b b. Malik reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not come back from the journey but by day in the forenoon, and when he arrived, he went first to the mosque, and having prayed two rak'ahs in it he sat down in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Shaqiq reported:I asked 'A'isha whether the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe the forenoon prayer. She said: No, but when he came back from the journey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Shaqiq reported:I aksed 'A'isha whether the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe the forenoon prayer. She said: No, except when he came back from a journey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mu'adha asked 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) how many rak'ahs Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prayed at the forenoon prayer. She replied:Four rak'ahs, but sometimes more as he pleased (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported by the same chain of transmitters, but with this alteration that the transmitter said:" As Allah pleased (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mua'ada 'Adawiyya reported 'A'isha as saying:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe four rak'ahs in the forenoon prayer and he sometimes observed more as Allah pleased (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Murra narrated on the authority of Umm Hani that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the day of the Conquest of Mecca observed in her house eight rak'ahs of prayer in one cloth, its opposite corners having been tied from the opposite sides (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported. My friend (the Holy Prophet, may peace be upon him) has instructed me to do three things:three fasts during every month, two rak'ahs of the forenoon prayer, and observing Witr prayer before going to bed (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:My friend Abu'l-Qasim (ﷺ) instructed me to do three things, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Nafi' with the same chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hafsa reported that when it was dawn, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not observe (any other prayers) but two short rak'ahs (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hafsa reported:When the dawn appeared, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed two rak'ahs (of Sunnah prayers) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe two rak'ahs of Sunnah (prayer) when he heard the Adhin and shortened them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by the same chain of transmitters and in the hadith narrated by Usama the words are:" When it was dawn (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe two (supererogatory) rak'ahs in between the call to prayer and the Iqama of the dawn prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed two rak'ahs of the dawn prayer and he shortened them (to the extent) that I (out of surprise) said:Did he recite in them Surah Fatiha (only)? (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:When it was dawn, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed two rak'ahs, and I would say: Does he recite only the opening chapter of the Qur'an in it? (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Apostle (ﷺ) was not so much particular about observing supererogatory rak'ahs as in case of the two rak'ahs of the dawn prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:I have never seen the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) hastening as much in observing supererogatory as two rak'ahs before the (Fard) of the dawn prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger as saying:The two rak'ahs at dawn are better than this world and what it contains (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said about the two (supererogatory) rak'ahs of the dawn:They are dearer to me than the whole world (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited in the two (supererogatory) rak'ahs of the dawn (prayer):" Say: O unbelievers," (Qur'an, cix.) and" Say: Allah is one" (cxii) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by another chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Salim reported with the same chain of transmitters:He who observed twelve voluntary rak'ahs, a house will be built for him in Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Habiba reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) having said:If any Muslim servant (of Allah) performed ablution, and performed it well, and then observed every day, the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would pray in the night for a long time, and when he prayed standing be bowed in a standing posture, and when he prayed sitting, he bowed in a sitting posture (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Shaqiq reported:I fell ill in Persia and therefore, prayed in a sitting posture, and I asked 'A'isha about it and she said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed for a long time in the night sitting (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in sitting position (while observing the Tahajjud prayer) and when he intended to bow, he would stand up and recite (for the duration in which) a man (ordinarily) recites forty verses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Alqama b. Waqqas reported:I asked 'A'isha how the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did in the two rak'ahs as he (observed them) sitting. She said: He would recite (the Qur'an) in them, and when he intended to bow, he would stand up and then bowed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Shaqiq reported:I asked 'A'isha whether the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed (Nafl) sitting. She said: Yes, when the people had made him old (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Shaqiq reported:I said to 'A'isha and she made a mention of that (recorded above) about the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) died (in this very state) that he observed most of his (Nafl) prayers in a sitting position (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) grew bulky and heavy he would observe (most of his Nafl) prayers sitting (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zuhri reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters, except this that he made a mention of one year or two years (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed (Nafl) prayer sitting before his death (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Yahya al-A'raj with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe thirteen rak'ahs of the night prayer. Five out of them consisted of Witr, and he did not sit, but at the end (for salutation) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray thirteen rak'ahs during the night including the two rak'ahs (Sunan) of the dawn prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama reported that he asked 'A'isha about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (may peace he upon him) (during the night). The rest of the hadith is the same but with this exception that he (the Holy Prophet) observed nine rak'ahs including Witr (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama is reported to have said. I came to 'A'isha. I said:O mother, inform me about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). She said: His (night prayer) in Ramadan and (during other months) was thirteen rak'ahs at night including two rak'ahs of fajr (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of 'A'isha that the prayer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the night consisted of ten rak'ahs. He observed a Witr and two rak'ahs (of Sunan) of the dawn prayer, and thus the total comes to thirteen rak'ahs (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha observed that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe prayer in the night and the last of his (night) prayer was Witr (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Never did the earlier part of the dawn find the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) but sleeping in my house or near me (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had prayed the two rak'ahs (Sunan) of the dawn prayer, he would talk to me if I was awake, otherwise he would lie down (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by 'A'isha by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray in the night and when he observed Witr, he said to me: O 'A'isha, get up and observe Witr (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to offer prayer at night while she lay in front of him, and when the Witr prayer was yet to be observed, he would awaken her and she observed Witr (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed the Witr prayer every night and he completed Witr at the time of dawn (from eng-muslim.txt)
Masruq reported on the authority of 'A'isha that she said that the Messenger Of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe the Witr prayer every night, maybe in the early part of night, at midnight and in the latter part, finishing his Witr at dawn (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe Witr every night, and he would (at times) complete his Witr at the end of the night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zurara b. Aufa said that Sa'd b. Hisham divorced his wife, and then proceeded to Medina to sell his property, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) missed the night prayer due to pain or any other reason, he observed twelve rak'ahs during the daytime (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar b. Khattab reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Should anyone fall asleep and fail to recite his portion of the Qur'an, or a part of it, if he recites it between the dawn prayer and the noon prayer, it will be recorded for him as though he had recited it during the night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Arqam, on seeing some people praying in the forenoon, said:They well know that prayer at another time than this is more excellent, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: The prayer of those who are penitent is observed when your weaned camels feel the heat of the sun (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Arqam reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out to the people of Quba' and saw them observing prayer; upon this he said:The prayer of the penitent should be observed when the young weaned camels feel heat of the sun (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim reported on the authority of his father that a person asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the night prayer. He said:It consists of pairs of rak'ahs, but if one fears morning is near, he should make it an odd number by praying one rak'ah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported:A man stood up and said. Messenger of Allah, how is the night prayer? The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: The night prayer consists of pair, but if you apprehend the rise of dawn, make it odd number by observing one rak'ah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith his been narrated by Ibn 'Umar by another chain of trans- mitters but it does not have these words:" Then a person asked him at the end of the year," and what follows subsequently (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as say- ing:Hasten to pray Witr before morning (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:He who prayed at night should make Witr the end of his prayer, for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Make Witr the end of your night prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported Ibn 'Umar as saying:He who observed the night prayer should make Witr the end of his prayer before dawn. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to order them thus (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Witr is a rak'ah at the end of the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Witr is a rak'ah at the end of the night prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Mijlaz reported:I asked Ibn 'Abbas about the Witr prayer. He said: I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: It is a rak'ah at the end of the night prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Sirin reported:I asked Ibn 'Umar like this (as recorded in the previous hadith) and he made this addition:" And he (the Holy Prophet) made the end of the night prayer as odd number by one rak'ah." And there is also (this addition):" Stop, stop, you are bulky (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported that they (some of the Companions) of the Prophet (ﷺ) asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about Witr. He said:Observe Witr before morning (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The most excellent prayer is that in which the duration of standing is longer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about the prayer which was most excellent. He said: That in which the standing is longer. (This hadith is narrated by another chain of transmitters too) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir said he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say:There is an hour during the night in which no Muslim individual will ask Allah for good in this world and the next without His giving it to him; and that applies to every night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: There is an hour during the night in which no Muslim bondman will ask Allah for good in this world and the next but He will grant it to him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Ishaq with the same chain uf transmitters except this that the hadith transmitted by Mansur (the above one) is more comprehensive and lengthy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who observed prayer at night during Ramadan, because of faith and seeking his reward from Allah, his previous sins would be forgiven (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who prayed on the Lailat-ul-Qadr (the Majestic Night) knowing that it is (the same night). I (believe) that he (the Prophet also) said: (He who does) it with faith and seeking reward (from Allah), his sins would be forgiven (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters, but he made no mention that Shu'ba was in doubt and what follows subsequently (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salama said:I met Kuraib and he reported Ibn `Abbas as saying: I was with my mother's sister Maimuna and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came there, and then he narrated the rest of the hadith as was narrated by Ghundar and said these words: "Make me light," beyond any doubt (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn `Abbas reported:I spent a night in the house of my mother's sister Maimuna, and the rest of the hadith is the same as narrated above (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Jamra reported:I heard Ibn 'Abbas saying that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed thirteen rak'ahs at night (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up at night to pray, he began his prayer with two short rak'ahs (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying When any one of you gets up at night, he should begin the prayer with two short rak'ahs (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn 'Abbas by another chain of transmitters and the words are nearly the same (as recorded in the above-mentioned hadith) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported:I prayed with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he lengthened it till I entertained an evil thought. It was said to him what that thought was. He said: I thought that I should sit down and forsake him (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah (b. Mas'ud) reported that a mention was made of a man who slept the whole night till morning. He (the Holy Prophet) remarked:That is a man in whose ears (or in whose ear) the devil urinated (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Observe some of your prayers in your houses and do not make them graves (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Pray in your houses, and do not make them graves (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you observes prayer in the mosque he should reserve a part of his prayer for his house, for Allah would make the prayer as a means of betterment in his house (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The house in which remembrance of Allah is made and the house in which Allah is not remembered are like the living and the dead (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not make your houses as graveyards. Satan runs away from the house in which Surah Baqara is recited (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha is reported to have said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about the act most pleasing to Allah. He replied:That which is done continuously, even if it is small (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The acts most pleasing to Allah are those which are done continuously, even if they are small. and when 'A'isha did any act she did it continuously (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the authority of Anas by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:When anyone amongst you dozes in prayer, he should sleep, till sleep is gone, for when one of you prays while dozing he does not know whether he may be asking pardon or vilifying himself (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you gets up at night (for prayer) and his tongue falters in (the recitation) of the Qar'an, and he does not know what he is reciting, he should go to sleep (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) heard a person reciting the Qur'an at night. Upon this he said:May Allah show mercy to him; he has reminded me of such and such a verse which I had missed in such and such a surah (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) listened to the recitation of the Qur'an by a man in the mosque. Thereupon he said:May Allah have mercy upon him; be reminded me of the verse which I had been made to forget (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The example of a man who has memorised the Qur'an is like that of a hobbled camel. If he remained vigilant, he would be able to retain it (with him), and if he loosened the hobbled camel it would escape (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Mas'ud reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Wretched is the man who says: I forgot such and such a sura, or I forget such and such a verse, but he has been made to forget (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa al-Ash'ari reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Keep refreshing your knowledge of the Qur'an, for I swear by Him in Whose Hand is the life of Mahammad that it is more liable to escape than camels which are hobbled (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported this directly from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ):God has not listened to anything as He listens to a Prophet reciting the Qur'an in a sweet voice (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters with words:" As He listens to a Prophet reciting the Qur'an in a sweet voice (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira is reported to have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah does not listen to anything, (more approvingly) as He listens to a Prophet reciting loudly the Qur'an in a sweet voice (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated with the same chain of transmitters by Ibn al-Had except this that Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying and he did not say:" He heard it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah has not heard anything (more pleasing) than listening to the Prophet reciting the Qur'an in a sweet loud voice (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters but with a slight modification of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Buraida reported on the authority of his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said:'Abdullah b. Qais or al-Ash'ari has been gifted with a sweet melodious voice out of the voices of the family of David (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadlth has been narrated by Khalid al-Harith with the same chain of transmitters (with these words):(The Holy Prophet) was reciting Surat al-Fath as he was travelling on his mount (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of al-Bara' with a slight modification of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters but with one alteration that instead of the word:" hypocrite" (Munafiq), there it is" wicked" (fajir) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (as saying):One who is proficient in the Qur'an is associated with the noble, upright, recording angels; and he who falters in it, and finds it difficult for him, will have two rewards (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported with the same chain of transmitters by Qatada except with this change:" He who finds it hard (to recite the Qur'an) will have a double reward (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying to Ubayy b. Ka'b:Allah has commanded me to recite the Qur'an to you. He said: Did Allah mention me to you by name? He (the Holy Prophet) said: Allah made a mention of your name to me. (On hearing this) Ubayy b. Ka'b wept (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying to Ubayy b. Ka`b:Allah has commanded me to recite to you:" Those who disbelieve were not..." (al-Qur'an, xcviii. 1). He said: Did He mention me by name? He (the Prophet said): Yes. Upon this he shed tears (of gratitude) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatada said:I heard Anas saying that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to Ubayy the same thing (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narratted by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:" The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was on the pulpit when he asked me to recite to him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters but with an exception that it is not mentioned in it:" He said to me: You recited (the Qur'an) well (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Mu'awiya with the same chain of transmitters but with this exception that in this the words of Mu'awiya:" It has been conveyed to me..." have not been mentioned (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Mansur with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Mas'ud from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is through another chain of transmitters that this hadith has been reported by Abu Mas'ud from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Darda' reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone learns by heart the first ten verses of the Surah al-Kahf, he will be protected from the Dajjal (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters. But Shu'ba (one of the narrators) said:At the end of Surah al-Kahf, but Hammam said: At the beginning of Surah al-Kahf (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters in these words:He (the Messenger of Allah) said: Allah divided the Qur'an into three parts, and he made:" Say: He, Allah is One." one part out of the (three) parts of the Qur'an (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out to us and said: I am going to recite before you one-third of the Qur'an. He (the Holy Prophet) then recited:" Say: He is Allah, One--Allah, the Eternal," to the end of the Surah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. 'Amir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:What wonderful verses have been sent down today. the like of which has never been seen! They are:" Say: I seek refuge with the Lord of the dawn," and" Say: I seek refuge with the Lord of men (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. 'Amir reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: There have been sent down to me verses the like of which had never been seen before. They are the Mu'awwadhatain (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters directly from the Companions of Muhammad (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Zuhri (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of trans- mitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubayy b. Ka'b reported that he was sitting in a mosque that a person entered it and he observed prayer, and made recitation, the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters in which ('Abdullah b. Mas'ud) said:" I know the manners in which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited the two surahs in one rak'ah and then twenty surahs in ten rak'ahs (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ishaq is reported to have said on the authority of Aswad who quoted on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Mas'ud that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite these words as (fahal min muddakir) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira is reported to have said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited to observe prayer after the 'Asr prayer till the sun is set, and after the dawn till the sun rises (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters with a minor alteration of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No prayer is valid after the 'Asr prayer till the sun sets and no prayer is valid after the dawn prayer till the sun rises (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Let not any one of you intend to observe prayer at the time of the rising of the sun or of the setting sun (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not intend to observe prayer at the time of the rising of the sun nor at its setting, for it rises between the horns of Satan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When the rim of the sun starts appearing defer prayer till it completely appears, and when the rim of the sun disappears defer prayer till it completely disappears (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Basra Ghifari through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that 'Umar misconstrued the fact that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had prohibited the observance of prayer at the time of the rising sun and at the time of its setting (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not abandon at all observing two rak'ahs after the 'Asr in my house (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Two are the prayers which the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) always observed in my house-openly or secretly-two rak'ahs before the dawn and two rak'ahs after the 'Asr (from eng-muslim.txt)
Aswad and Masruq reported:We bear testimony to the fact that 'A'isha said: Never was there a day that he (the Holy Prophet) was with me and he did not observe two rak'ahs of prayer in my house, i. e. two rak'ahs after the Asr (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Mughaffal reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) u saying:There Is between the two calls (Adhan and Iqama) a prayer. And he mentioned it three times, and at the third time he said: This applies to those who wish to do it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abdullah b. Mughaffal by another chain of transmitters, but with this variation that he (the Holy Prophet) said at the fourth time:" He who wishes (may do to) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah is reported to have heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you intends to come for Jumu'a prayer, he should take a bath (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar is reported to have said that The Messenger of Allah (may peace be up on him) was standing on the pulpit when he said this:He who comes for Jumu'a he should take a bath (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Umar by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah (b. Umar) reported on the authority of his father that he heard like this from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Taking a bath on Friday is essential for every adult person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Aisha reported:The people (mostly) were workers and they had no servants. Ill-smell thus emitted out of them. It was said to them: Were you to take bath on Friday (from eng-muslim.txt)
Tawus reported that Ibn Abbas narrated the words of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about taking bath on Friday. Tawus said:I asked Ibn Abbas it one should apply to oneself perfume or oil which is available with his wife. He (Ibn Abbas) said: I do not know of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Juraij with the came chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said. it is the right of Allah upon every Muslim that he should take a bath (at least) on one day (Friday) during the seven days (of the week) and he should wash his head and body (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If you (even) ask your companion to be quiet on Friday while the Imam is delivering the sermon, you have in fact talked irrelevance (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Juraij narrated a similar Hadith (as no. 1965) from Ibn Shihab with both chains, except that Ibn Juraij said:"Ibrahim bin 'Abdullah bin Qariz (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith has been narrated by Abu Huraira, but instead of the word laghauta the word laghita has been used. Abu Zinad (one of the narrators) says that laghita is the dialect of Abu Huraira, whereas it is laghauta (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is a time on Friday at which no Muslim servant would pray and would ask Allah for a thing (that is good) but He would give it to him. Qutaiba pointed with the help of his hand that it (the time) is short (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Abu'l-Qasim (the kunya of the Holy Prophet) (ﷺ) as saying:There is a time on Friday at which no Muslim would stand and pray and beg Allah for what Is good but He would give it to him; and he pointed with his hand that (this time) is short and narrow (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:"There is a time on Friday at which no Muslim would ask Allah for what is good but He would give it to him." And further said: "This is a very short time (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammam b. Munabbih reported this hadith from Abu Huraira who reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) but he did not say:" That time is short (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The best day on which the sun has risen is Friday; on it Adam was created, on it he was made to enter Paradise, on it he. was expelled from it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:The best day on which the sun has risen is Friday; on it Adam was created. on it he was made to enter Paradise, on it he was expelled from it. And the last hour will take place on no day other than Friday (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:We are the last and would be the first on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:We were guided aright to Friday (as a day of prayer and meditation), but Allah diverted those who were before us from it. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Said said:We did not have a siesta or lunch till after the Friday prayer. (Ibn Hajr added: ) "During the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Iyas b. Salama b. Akwa' reported on the authority of his father, saying:We used to observe the Friday prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and when we returned we did not find the shadow of the walls in which we could take protection (from the heat of the sun) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to deliver the sermon on Friday while standing. He would then sit and then stand (for the second sermon) as they (the Muslims) do nowadays (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura said:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) gave two sermons between which he sat, recited the Qur'an and exhorted the people (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Husain with the same chain of transmitters but with this alteration that he did not make mention of the standing position (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar and Abu Huraira said that they heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say on the planks of his pulpit:People must cease to neglect the Friday prayer or Allah will seal their hearts and then they will be among the negligent (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:I used to pray with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and both his prayer and sermon were of moderate length (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:I used to observe prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and his prayer was of moderate length and his sermon too was of moderate length (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ja'far b. Muhammad said on the authority of his father:I heard Jabir b. 'Abdullah saying that in the sermon of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) he praised Allah, lauded Him (and subsequently said [other words] and raised his voice, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Safwan b. Ya'la reported on the authority of his father that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting (verses of the Qur'an) on the pulpit. and" They cried:0 Malik (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amra daughter of Abd al-Rahman reported on the authority of the sister of Amra:I memorised (surah) "Qaf, by the glorious Qur'an" from the mouth of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on Friday for he recited it on the pulpit on every Friday (from eng-muslim.txt)
The daughter of Haritha b. Nu'man said:I did not memorise (Surah) Qaf but from the mouth of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as he used to deliver the. sermon along with it on every Friday. She also added: Our oven and that of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was one (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umara b. Ruwaiba said he saw Bishr b. Marwan on the pulpit raising his hands and said:Allah, disfigure these hands! I have seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gesture no more than this with his hands, and he pointed with his forefinger (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters on the authority of Husain b. Abd al-Rahman (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that while Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was delivering the sermon on Friday a person came there, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to him:So and so, have you prayed (two rak'ahs)? He said: No. He (the Holy Prophet) said: Then stand and pray (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Jabir through another chain of transmitters but Hammad (one of the narrators) made no mention of the two rak'ahs (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that a person came (in the Mosque) while the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was delivering the sermon on Friday (standing) on the pulpit. He (the Holy Prophet) said to him:Have you offered two rak'ahs? He said: No. Upon this he said: Then observe (them) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) delivered the sermon and said:When any one of you comes for the Friday (prayer) and the Imam comes out (from his apartment), (even then) should observe two rak'ahs (of prayer) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Abdullah b. Abu Rafi' with the same chain of transmitters but with this modification:" That he recited Surah Jumu'a (lxii.) in the first rak'ah and" The hypocrites came" in the second rak'ah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibrahim b Muhammad b. al-Muntashir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Dahhak b. Qais wrote to Nu'man b. Bashir asking him what the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited on Friday besides Surah Jumu'a He said that he recited:" Has there reached..." (Surah lxxxviii) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the morning prayer on Friday Surah" Alif-Lam-Mim, Tanz'il ul-Sajda" (Surah xxxii.): Surely there came over the man a time" (Surah lxxvii) and he used to recite in Jumu'a prayer Surahs Jumu'a and al-Munafiqin (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Sufyan with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mukhawwil has narrated this hadith on the authority of Sufyan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the dawn prayer on Friday" Alif-Lam-Mim, Tanzil" and" Surely there came (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in the dawn prayer on Friday:" Alif-Lam-Mim, Tanzil" in the first rak'ah, and in the second one:" Surely there came over the man a time when he was nothing that could be mentioned (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you observes the Jumu'a prayer (two obligatory rak'ahs in congregation), he should observe four (rak'ahs) afterwards (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one amongst you observes prayer after Jumu'a, he should observe four rak'ahs. (In the hadith transmitted by Jarir the word minkum is not recorded) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that when 'Abdullah (b. 'Umar) observed the Friday prayer and came back he observed two rak'ahs in his house, and then said:The Messenger of Allah (may peace be updn him) used to do this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim narrated on the authority of his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe two rak'ahs after Jumu'a (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith is narrated on the authority of 'Umar b. Ata' but with this modification:When he (the Imam) pronounced salutation I stood up at my place. No mention was made of the Imam in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura said:I prayed with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayers on two I'ds wore than once or twice without there being Adhan and Iqama (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr and 'Umar used to observe the two 'Id prayers before the sermon (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm 'Atiyya said:He (the Messenger of Allah) commanded us that we should take out unmarried women and the screened away ladies for 'Id prayers, and he commanded the menstruating women to remain away from the place of worship of the Muslims (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Atiyya reported:We were commanded to go out as well as the hidden away ladies and those unmarried. She said menstruating women were to come out amongst you, but remain behind people and pronounce takbir (Allah-o-Akbar) along with them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Utba reported that his father Waqid al-Laithi said:'Umar b. Khattab asked me what the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited on 'Id day. I said:" The Hour drew near" and Qaf. By the Glorious Qur'an (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Hisham with the same chain of transmitters, but there the words are:" Two girls were playing upon a tambourine (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that some Abyssinians came and gave a demonstration of armed fight on the 'Id day in the mosque. The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) invited me (to see that fight). I placed my head on his shoulder and began to see their sport till it was I who turned away from watching them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Hisham with the same chain of transmitters but (the narrators) did not make mention of the mosque (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Zaid b. Mazini reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went to the place of prayer and prayed for rain and turned round his mantle while facing the Qibla (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Tamim narrated on the authority of his uncle ('Abdullah b. Zaid) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out to the place of prayer and prayed for rain and faced towards Qibla, and turned round his mantle and prayed two rak'ahs (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Zaid al-Ansari reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out to the place of prayer in order to offer prayer for rainfall. And when he intended to make supplication he faced Qibla and turned round his mantle (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raising his hands (high enough) in supplication (for rain) that the whiteness of his armpits became visible (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed for rain pointing the back of his hands to the sky (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas but with this addition:" Allah gathered the clouds and as we (were obliged) to stay back I saw that even the strong man, impelled by a desire to go to his family, (could not do so) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I have been helped by the east wind and the 'Ad were destroyed by the west wind (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Hisham b. 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:" Verily the sun and the moon are among the signs of Allah." And similarly this addition was made:" He then lifted his hands and said: O Allah! have I not conveyed it? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zuhri said:Kathir b. Abbas used to narrate that Ibn 'Abbas used to relate about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in regard to the eclipse of the sun like that what was narrated by 'Urwa on the authority of 'A'isha (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated thus on the authority of 'A'isha through another chain of transmitters:" The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed six ruku's and four prostration in (two rak'ahs) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Yahya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zaid b. Aslam with the same chain of transmitters except with this difference that he (the narrator said):" then we saw you keeping aloof (back) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:When there was a solar eclipse the Messenger of Allah (way peace be upon him) observed eight ruku's and four prostrations (in two rak'ahs). This has been narrated by 'Ali also (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Mas'ud reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Verily the sun and the moon do not eclipse on account of the death of any one of the people, but they are the two signs among the signs of Allah. So when you see it, stand up and observe prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Isma'il with the same chain of transmitters and in the hadith narrated by Sufyan and Waki' (the words are):" The sun eclipsed on the day when Ibrahim died, and the people said: It has eclipsed on the death of Ibrahim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. Samura reported:I was shooting some of my arrows during the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that the sun eclipsed. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed:Verily the sun and the moon do not eclipse on account of the death or life of anyone. They are in fact the signs among the signs of Allah. So when you see them, observe prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Exhort to recite" There is no god but Allah" to those of you who are dying (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Sulaiman b. Bilal with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Exhort to recite" There is no god but Allah" to those of you who are dying (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Did you not see when the man died and his eyes were fixedly open? He (Abu Huraira) said: Yes. He (the Holy Prophet) said: It is due to the fact that when (the soul leaves the body) his eyesight follows the soul (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of 'Ala' with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters on the authority of 'Asim al-Ahwal (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Endurance is to be shown at the first blow (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated with the same chain of transmitters but with the addition of these words:" The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) happened to pass by a woman (who was sitting) by the side of a grave (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported that Hafsa wept for 'Umar (when he was about to die). He ('Umar) said:Be quiet, my daughter. Don't you know that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said:" The deceased is punished because of his family's weeping over the death"? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The dead is punished in the grave because of wailing on it (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith is narrated on the authority of 'Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:When 'Umar was wounded he fainted, and there was a loud lamentation over him. When he regained consciousness he said: Didn't you know that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:" The dead is punished because of the weeping of the living"? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Burda narrated on the authority of his father that when 'Umar was wounded Suhaib uttered (loudly in lamentation):O brother! Upon this 'Umar said: Suhaib, did you not know that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:" The dead is punished because of the lamentation of the living"? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The dead is punished because of the lamentation of the living (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters. The hadith narrated by Abu Usama is more complete (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Rabi'a reported that the first one who was lamented upon in Kufa was Qaraza b. Ka'b. Mughira b. Shu'ba said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: He who is lamented upon would be punished because of the lamentation for him on the Day of judgment (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Mughira b. Shu'ba from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Yahya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters like one narrated by 'Abd al-'Aziz (with the change of these words):" You did not spare the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) the botheration (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm 'Atiyya reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took pledge from us (including this promise) that we would not lament. Only five amongst us fulfilled the promise, and one of them (who fulfilled the promise) was Umm Sulaim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm 'Atiyya reported:We were forbidden to follow the bier, but it was not made absolute on us (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm 'Atiyya reported:We were refrained from following the bier, but it was not made absolute on us (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm 'Atiyya reported:We braided her hair in three plaits (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm 'Atiyya reported:We washed her an odd number of times, i. e. three, five or seven times; and Umm 'Atiyya (further) said: We braided her hair in three plaits (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm 'Atiyya reported that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) asked her to wash his daughter, he told her to start from the right side, and with those parts of the body over which Wudu' is performed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm 'Atiyya reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to them (the women) in regard to the washing of his daughter to start from the right side and with those parts of the body over which Wudu' is performed (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by 'Uyaina on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters, but in the hadith narrated by him there is no mention of the story of 'Abdullah b. Abu Bakr (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama said:I asked 'A'isha with how many garments the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was shourded. She said: With three garments of Sahul (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:When the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upom him) died, he was covered with a Yamani wrapper (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Make haste at a funeral; if the dead person was good, it is a good state to which you are sending him on; but if he was otherwise it is an evil of which you are ridding yourselves (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters except with this variation (of words) that in the hadith narrated by Ma'mar (the words are):" I do not know whether the hadith is marfu (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger as saying:Hasten at a funeral, for if (the dead person) is good, you would (soon) bring him close to the good. And if it is otherwise, it is an evil of which you are ridding yourselves (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on thp authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (with these words):" He who followed it (the bier) till he (the dead) is buried (from eng-muslim.txt)
Thauban, the freed slave of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who offered prayer for the dead, for him is the reward of one qirat, and he who attended its burial, he would have two qirats as his reward. And qirat is equivalent to Uhud (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Qatada with the same chain of transmitters. And in the hadith transmitted by Sa'id and Hisham, (the words are):" The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about qirat, and he said: It is equivalent to Uhud (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saying:If a company of Muslims numbering one hundred pray over a dead person, all of them interceding for him, their intercession for him will be accepted (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
In the hadith transmitted by Yahya b. Sa'id on the authority of Qatada (the words are):(The believing servant) finds relief from the troubles of the world and its hardships and (gets into) the Mercy of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave the people news of the death of Negus on the day he died, and he took them out to the place of prayer and observed four takbirs (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offered prayer for Ashama, the Negus, and recited four takbirs (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There died today the pious servant of Allah, Ashama. So he stood up and led us in (funeral prayer) over him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A brother of yours has died, so stand up and offer prayer over him. So we stood up and drew ourselves up into two rows (from eng-muslim.txt)
Imran b. Husain reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A brother of yours has died; so stand up and offer prayer for him, i. e. Negus. And in the hadith transmitted by Zubair (the words are):" Your brother (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters, but in one of them (these words are found):" The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) recited four takbirs (from eng-muslim.txt)
The hadith as narrated by Shaibani has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed prayer on the grave (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of 'Abd al-Rahman b. Abu Laila that Zaid used to recite four takbirs on our funerals and he recited five takbirs on one funeral. I asked him the reason (for this variation), to which he replied:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited thus (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of 'Amir Ibn Rabi'a (may Allah be pleased with him) that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:Whenever you see a funeral procession, stand up for that until it moves away or is lowered on the ground (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Ibn Juraij that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:Should anyone amongst you see a bier he must stand up so long as it is within sight in case he does not intend to follow it (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:When you follow a bier, do not sit until it is placed on the (ground) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:Whenever you come across a bier you should stand up, and he who follows it should not sit down till it is placed on the ground (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Juraij told me that Abu Zubair heard Jabir say that the Prophet (ﷺ) kept standing for a bier until it disappeared (from eng-muslim.txt)
Again Abu Zubair heard Jabir say that the Prophet (ﷺ) and his Companions kept standing for a bier of a Jew until it disappeared from sight (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Yahya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Muhammad b. Munkadir that he said:I heard from Mas'ud b. al-Hakam who narrated it on the authority of Hadrat 'Ali that he said: We saw the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up for a (bier) and we also stood up; he sat down and we too sat down (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Samura b. Jundub said:I prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he prayed for a woman who had died in the state of delivery. He stood in front of her waist (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Husain with the same chain of transmitters, but no mention is made of Umm Ka'b (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Jabir ibn Samura that an unsaddled horse was brought to the Prophet (ﷺ) and he rode on it when he returned after having offered the funeral prayer of Ibn Dahdah and we walked on foot around him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amir b. Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas told that Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas said during his illness of which he died:" Make a niche for me in the side of the grave and set up bricks over me as was done in case of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said that a piece of red stuff was put in the grave of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir said:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade that the graves should be plastered or they be used as sitting places (for the people), or a building should be built over them (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Jabir b. 'Abdullah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir said that he was forbidden to plaster graves (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is better that one of you should sit on live coals which would burn his clothing and come in contact with his skin than that he should sit on a grave (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Suhail with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Marthad al-Ghanawi reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not sit on the graves and do not pray facing towards them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Marthad al-Ghanawi reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not pray facing towards the graves, and do not sit on them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger, (ﷺ) as saying:I sought permission to beg forgiveness for my mother, but He did not grant it to me. I sought permission from Him to visit her grave, and He granted it (permission) to me (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported:(The dead body) of a person who had killed himself with a broad-headed arrow was brought before the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), but he did not offer prayers for him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) as saying:No sadaqa (zakat) is payable on less than five wasqs of (dates or grains), on less than five camel-heads and on less than five uqiyas (of silver) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by 'Amr b. Yahya with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umara reported:I heard Abd Sa'id al-Khudri as saying that he had heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) make (this) observation with a gesture of his five fingers, and then he narrated the hadith as transmitted by 'Uyaina (hadith) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No Sadaqa (zakat) is due on less than five wasqs of (dates or grains), on less than five camel-heads, and on less than five uqiyas (of silver) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No Sadaqa is payable on less than five wasqs of dates or grains (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No Sadaqa is payable on the grains and dates till it (comes to the Weight) of five wasqs, or less than five heads of camels, or less than five uqiyas (of silver) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Isma'il b. Umayya with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Isma'il b. Umayya with the same chain of transmitters, but instead of the word dates, fruit has been used (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No Sadaqa is payable on less than five fiqiyas of silver, and on less than five heads of camels, and less than five wasqs of dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A tenth is payable on what is watered by rivers, or rains, and a twentieth on what is watered by camels (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messsenger (ﷺ) as saying:No Sadaqa is due from a Muslim on his slave or horse (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No Sadaqa is due from a Muslim on his slave or horse (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no Sadaqa on a slave except Sadaqat-ul-Fitr (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar said that Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) prescribed the payment of Zakat-ul-Fitr (on breaking the fast) of Ramadan for people, for every freeman, or slave, male and female among the Muslims-one sa' of dried dates, or one sa' of barley (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prescribed Zakat-ul-Fitr one sa' of dates or one sa' of barley for every slave or freeman, young or old (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prescribed the Sadaqa of Ramadan (Sadaqat-al-Fitr) one sa' of dates or one sa' of barley for every free man or a slave, male or female, and then the people equalised (one sa' of dates or barley) with half a sa' of wheat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered the (payment of) Zakat-ul-Fitr one sa' of dates, or one sa' of barley. Ibn 'Umar ('Abdullah b. 'Umar) further said:The people equalised it (then) with two mudds of fine wheat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prescribed Zakat-ul-Fitr of Ramadan one sa' of dates or one sa' of barley for every individual among the Muslims (whether) free man or slave, male or female, young or old (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sad b. Abu Sarh heard Abu Sa'id al-Khudri as saying:We used to take out as the Zakat of Fitr one sa' of grain, or one sa' of barley or one sa' of dates, or one sa' of cheese or one sa' of raisins (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al Khudri reported:We used to take out the Zakat of Fitr in three kinds, cheese, dates and barley (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered that the Sadaqat-ul-Fitr should be paid before the people go out for prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered the payment of Sadaqat-ul-Fitr before people go out for prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Suhail b. Abu Salih with the same chain of transmitters, and he said he substituted the word aqsa' with 'adba' and said:" his side and his back," but he made no mention of his forehead (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:" When a person does not pay what is due to Allah or Sadaqa of his camels...." The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Muhammad b. Isma'il with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:Nothing is more delighting to me than this that Uhud should be of gold for me, and no dinar is left with me out of it before three nights pass except a dinar which I would set aside for the repayment of debt upon me (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported the same from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that Allah, the Most Blessed and High, said:O son of Adam, spend. I will spend on you. The right hand of Allah is full and overflowing and in nothing would diminish it, by overspending day and night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Of the dinar you spend as a contribution in Allah's path, or to set free a slave, or as a sadaqa given to a needy, or to support your family, the one yielding the greatest reward is that which you spent on your family (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that a person among the Ansar who was called Abu Madhkur granted posthumous freedom to his slave who was called Ya'qub. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Maimuna bint Harith reported that she set free a slave-girl during the lifetime of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and she made a mention of that to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he said:Had you gives her to your maternal uncles, you would have a greater reward (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Zainab the wife of 'Abdullah, and she said:I was in the mosque and the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) saw me and said: Give Sadaqa even though it is out of your jewellery. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Mas'ud reported Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) as saying:When a Muslim spends on his family seeking reward for it from Allah, it counts for him as sadaqa (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Asma' daughter of Abu Bakr reported:I said: Messenger of Allah, my mother, who is inclined or scared has come to me. Should I (even An her position of being opposed to Islam) treat her well? He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters. And in the hadith transmitted by Abu Usama the words are:" She did not make any will," as it has been reported by Ibn Bishr, but it was not reported by the rest of the narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hudhaifa and Abu Shaiba reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Every act of goodness is sadaqa (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zaid with the same chain of transmitters except with (a slight) change of words (i.e. he [the Holy Prophet]) said:Or he enjoined what is good, ... and said: He enters the evening [i.e. he walks till evening] (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by 'A'isha through anothr chain of transmitters in which she reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:" Every man is created" ; the rest of the hadith is the same and he said:" He walks on that day (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No one gives Sadaqa of a date out of his honest earning, but Allah accepts it with His Right Hand, and then fosters it as one of you fosters the colt or a young she-camel, till it becomes like a mountain or even greater (from eng-muslim.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:This hadith has been transmitted through another chain the same as the narration of Ya'qub from Suhail (from eng-muslim.txt)
Adi b. Hatim reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) as saying:He who among you can protect himself against Fire, he should do so, even if it should be with half a date (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mandhir through another chain of transmitters. And the hadith transmitted by Ibn Mu'adh contains an addition:" He then observed the noon prayer and then gave the sermon (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir b. 'Abdullah reported:People came to to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and they ware dressed in woollen clothes. He (the Holy Prophet) saw their dismal state, as they were suffering from want and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters and in the hadith transmitted by Sa'id b. al Rabi (the words are):" We used to carry loads on our backs (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (that the Messenger of Allah) said:Of course the person who gives to the family a she-camel as a gift, which gives milk morning and evening equal to a large bowl, its reward (the reward of the gift) is great (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Mansur with the same chain of transmitters (with this alteration of words):" from the food of her husband (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umair, the freed slave of Abi'l-Lahm reported:I was the slave (of Abi'l-Lahm). I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) if I could give some charity out of my master's wealth. He said: Yes, and the reward is half and half between you two (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Asma', daughter of Abu Bakr (Allah be pleased with him), reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: Spend, and do not calculate, or otherwise Allah would also calculate in your case (from eng-muslim.txt)
Asma' reported Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) as saying (to her):Spend and do not calculate, (for) Allah would calculate in your case; and do not hoard, otherwise Allah would be withholding from you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Asma' through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated, on the authority, of Abu Huraira (with this change of words)." A person whose heart is attached to the mosque when he goes out of it till he returns to it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated with the same chain of transmitters except with this change (of words):" Which charity is most excellent? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar reported that as Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was sitting on the pulpit and talking about Sadaqa and abstention from begging, he said:The upper hand is better than the lower one, the upper being the one which bestows and the lower one which begs (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hakim b. Hizam reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said this:The most excellent Sadaqa or the best of Sadaqa is that after giving which the (giver) remains rich and the upper hand is better than the lower hand, and begin from the members of your household (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mu'awiya reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not press in a matter, for I swear by Allah, none of you who asks me for anything and manages to get his request while I disdain it, will he be blessed in that which I give him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. Auf reported:I heard Mu'awiya b. Abu Sufyan saying in an address that he had heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: He to whom Allah intends to do good, He gives him insight into religion. And I am only the distributor while Allah is the Bestower (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Miskin is not he who is dismissed with one or two dates, and with one morsel or two morsels. (In fact) miskin is he who abstains (from begging). Read if you so desire (the verse):" They beg not of men importunately)" (ii) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hamza. son of 'Abdullah, reported on the authority of his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:When a man is always begging from people. he would meet Allah (in a state) that there would be no flesh on his face (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of the brother of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters, but no mention has been made of the word" muz'a" (piece) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hamza b. 'Abdullah b. Umar heard his father say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said:The person would continue begging from people till he would come on the Day of Resurrection and there would be no flesh on his face (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who begs the riches of others to increase his own is asking only for live coals, so let him ask a little or much (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is better for any one of you to tie a bundle of firewood and carry it on his back and sell it than to beg a person, he may give or may refuse (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abdullah b. al-Sa'di from 'Umar b. al-Khattab who heard it from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn al-Sa'di reported:'Umar b. Khattab (Allah be pleased with him) appointed me as a collector of Sadaqat. The rest of the hadith in the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as having said this:The heart of an old person feels young for the love of two things: love for long life and wealth (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said this:The heart of an old person is young for two things: for long life and love for wealth (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The son of Adam grows old, but two (desires) in him remain young: desire for wealth and desire for life (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If the son of Adam were to possess two valleys of riches. he would long for the third one. And the stomach of the son of Adam is not filled but with dust. And Allah returns to him who repents (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying this, but I do not know whether this thing was revealed to him or not, but he said to (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If there were two valleys of gold for the son of Adam, he would long for another one. and his mouth will not be filled but with dust, and Allah returns to him who repents (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said:Richness does not lie in the abundance of (worldly) goods but richness is the richness of the soul (heart, self) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. al-'As reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He Is successful who has accepted Islam, who has been provided with sufficient for his want and been made contented by Allah with what He has given him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:O Allah, make the provision of Muhammad's family sufficient just to sustain life (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that when Allah conferred upon His Messenger (ﷺ) the riches of Hawazin (without armed encounter) ; the rest of the hadith is the same except some variation (of words):" Anas said: We could not tolerate it and he also said: The people were immature in age (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters, but no mention has been made of Alqama b. 'Ulatha, nor of safwin b. Umayya, and he did not mention the verse in his hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. 'Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters, but no mention has been made of:" If I find them, I would kill them as the Thamud were killed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:A group would secede itself (from the Ummah) when there would be dissension among the Muslims. Out of the two groups who would be nearer the truth would kill them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There would be two groups in my Ummah, and there would emerge another group (seceding itself from both of them), and the party nearer to the truth among the two would kill them (the group of the Khawarij) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"A group will secede at a time of division among the people, and they will be killed by the group that is closer to the truth (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that a group (Khawarij) would emerge from the different parties (the party of Hadrat 'Ali and the party of Amir Mu'awiya), the group nearer the truth between the two would kill them (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters, but (these words) are not there:" They pass through the religion clean as the arrow passes through the prey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abida said:I will not narrate to you except what I heard from him (Hadrat 'Ali), and then he narrated from him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith had been transmitted by Sulaiman Shaibani with the same chain of narrators (and the words are)," There would arise out of (this group) many a group (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Hunaif reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:There would arise from the east a people with shaven heads (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Hasan b. 'Ali took one of The dates of the sadaqa and put it in his mouth, whereupon the Prophet (ﷺ) said:Leave it, leave it, throw it; don't you know that we do not eat the sadaqa? (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (and the words of the Holy Prophet) are:" Sadaqa is not permissible for us (from eng-muslim.txt)
This very hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sbu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I go back to my family and I find a date lying on my bed. I then take it up to eat it, but then I throw it away fearing that it may be a Sadaqa (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) found a date in the street and said:If it were not of sadaqa I would have eaten it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) found a date lying on the path and said:If it were not out of Sadaqa, I would have eaten it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) found a date and said:Were it not (that I fear) it may be part of sadaqa, I would have eaten it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of trainsmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Barira presented to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) a piece of meat which had been given to her as sadaqa. Upon this he (the Holy Prophet) said:That is a Sadaqa for her and a gift for us (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that (once) the Messenger of Allah (may peace be upon him, ) was presented with beef. It was said (by someone) that it had been given to Barira as Sadaqa. Upon this he (the Prophet) said:It is a Sadaqa for her and a gift for us (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'isha through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'A'isha in a similar manner except a slight variation that he said:" That is a gift for us out of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:Whenever the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was presented with food, he asked about it, If he was told that it was a gift, he ate out of that, and if he was told that it was a sadaqa he did not eat out of that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Abu Aufa said that it was the common practice of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that when the people brought to him sadaqa he blessed them:O Allah, bless them. So when Abu Aufa brought to him Sadaqa he (the Holy Prophet) said: O Allah, bless, the posterity of Abu Aufa (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (but with a slight variation of words, that he said):(O Allah), bless them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir b. 'Abdullah said:'When the collector of sadaqat (Zakat) comes to you, (you should see) that he goes away pleased with you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When there comes the month of Ramadan, the gates of mercy are opened, and the gates of Hell are locked and the devils are chained (from eng-muslim.txt)
Narrated Abu Huraira:Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: When it is the month of Ramadan, the gates of mercy are opened, and the gates of Hell are locked and the devils are chained (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported by Abu Huraira (with a slight alteration of words) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:" When (the month of) Ramadan begins (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying in connection with Ramadan:Do not fast till you see the new moon, and do not break fast till you see it; but if the weather is cloudy calculate about it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters, and he said:If (the sky) is cloudy for you, then calculate thirty days (for the month of Ramadan) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubaidullah narrated on the authority of the same chain of transmitters that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) made a mention of Ramadan and said:The month may consist of twenty-nine days, and it may be thus, thus and thus, and (he further) said: Calculate it, but he did not say thirty (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) reported Allah's Measenger (ﷺ) as saying:When you see the new moon, observe fast, and when you see it (again) then break it, and if the sky is cloudy for you, then calculate it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The month is thus and thus and thus (i. e. pointing with his fingers thrice), and he held back his thumb at the third time (in order to show that it can also consist of twenty-nine days) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The month may consist of twenty-nine days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The month (of Ramadan) is thus and thus, and thus. i.e. ten, ten and nine (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (may Allah be pleased with both of them) reported Allah's Apostle as saying:We are an unlettered people who can neither write nor count. The month is thus, and thus. folding his thumb when he said it the third time (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Aswad b. Qais with the same chain of transmitters, but herein no mention has been made of the other month (consisting of) thirty days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Whenever you sight the new moon (of the month of Ramadan) observe fast. and when you sight it (the new moon of Shawwal) break it, and if the sky is cloudy for you, then observe fast for thirty days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Observe fast on sighting it (the new moon) and break (fast) on sighting it (the new moon), but if the sky is cloudy for you, then complete the number (of thirty) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Observe fast on sighting it (the new moon) and break it on sighting it. But if (due to clouds) the actual position of the month is concealed from you, you should then count thirty (days) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not observe fast for a day, or two days ahead of Ramadan except a person who is in the habit of observing a particular fast; he may fast on that day (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yahya b. Abi Kathir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Juraij with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas (Allah be pleased with him) said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) struck his hand against the other and (then with the gesture of his two hands) said:The month is thus, thus (two times). He then withdrew (one of) his fingers at the third turn (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. Sa'd reported on the authority of his father (Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas (Allah be pleased with him) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said:Tho month is thus and thus, and thus, i. e. ten, ten and nine (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Abu Khalid with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The son of Abu Bakra reported it on the authority of his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said:The two months of 'Id, Ramadan and Dhu'l-Hijja (are not incomplete) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd ar-Rahman b. Abu Bakra reported on the authority of Abu Bakra that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said:The months of 'Id are not incomplete. And in the hadith narrated by Khalid (the words are):" The months, of 'Id are Ramadan and Dhu'l-Hijja (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) reported:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying: Bilal announces Adhan during the night, so you eat and drink, till you hear the Adhan of Ibn Umm Maktum (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah on the two chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Samura b. Jundub addressed and narrated from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) having said (these words):Neither the call of Bilal should mislead you nor this whiteness (of false dawn) till (the true) dawn appears (or he said) till the dawn breaks (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Samura b. Jundub (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Take meal a little before dawn, for there is a blessing in taking meal at that time (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. al-'As reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The difference between our fasting and that of the people of the Book is eating shortly before dawn (from eng-muslim.txt)
Musa b. 'Ali has narrated this hadith through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Qatada too (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Sa'd (Allah be pleased with him) repotted Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The people will continue to prosper as long as they hasten the breaking of the fast (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Sahl b. Sa'd (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When the night approaches and the day retreates and the sun sinks down, then the observer of the fast should break it. Ibn Numair made no mention of the word" then (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Abi Aufa (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We travelled with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as he had been observing fast. When the sun sank he said: So and so, get down and prepare barley meal for us. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade uninterrupted fasting. They (some of the Companions) said:You yourself fast uninterruptedly, whereupon he said: I am not like you. I am fed and supplied drink (by Allah) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them), but he did not make mention of (the words):" During the month of Ramadan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying (the words as said in the previous hadith) but with this alteration (of words):" Take upon yourselves (the burden of the deeds) for which you have the strength to bear (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade (his Companions) to observe Saum Wisal (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) forbade them (his Companions) to observe Saum Wisal out of mercy for them. They said: You (Holy Prophet) yourself observe it. Upon this he said: I am not like you. My Lord feeds me and provides me drink (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) kissed one of his wives while he was fasting, and then she ('A'isha) smiled (as she narrated) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sufyan reported:I said to 'Abd al-Rahman b. Qasim: Have you heard from your father narrating from 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) that he kissed her while observing fast? He ('Abd al-Rahman b. Qasim) kept silence for a short while and then said:" Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to kiss me while observing fast; and who among you can control his desire as the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) could control his desire (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to kiss (his wives) while fasting and embraced (them) while fasting; but he had the greatest mastery over his desire among you (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to kiss (his wives) while fasting; and he had the greatest control over his desire (as compared with you) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to embrace (his wives) while fasting (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is further narrated on the authority of Aswad and Masruq that they went to the Mother of the Believers and they asked her (and the rest of the hadith is the same) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa b. Zubair narrated that 'A'isha the Mother of the Believers (Allah be pleased with her) informed him that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) kissed her while fasting (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Yahya b. Abu Kathir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to kiss her during the month of fasting (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kissed (his wives) during Ramadan while observing fast (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Apostle (peace be upon him) kissed (his wives) while fasting (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hafsa (Allah be pleased with her) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) kissed (his wives) while fasting (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Hafsa (Allah be pleased with her) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha, the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), said:The dawn broke upon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) during the Ramadan in a state of junub not because of sexual dream (but on account of intercourse) and he washed himself and observed fast (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters that a person broke fast in Ramadan whereupon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded him to free a slave (as an atonement), and the rest of the hadith is the same as narrated by Ibn Uyaina (from eng-muslim.txt)
Humaid b. 'Abd al-Rahman reported that Abu Huraira had narrated to him that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded the person (who) broke the fast in Ramadan to free a slave or observe fasts for two (consecutive) months or feed sixty poor persons (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated with the same chain of transmitters on the authority of Zuhri (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abbad b. Abdullah b. Zubair narrated that he heard 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) saying:A person came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he then narrated the hadith. But (neither these words are found):" Give charity, give charity" (nor) his words:" during the day time (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadlth like this has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Shibab who said that they (the Compnions of the Holy Prophet) followed the latest of his commands and looked upon it as one abrogating (the previous ones) and the most firm (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with him) reported:Do not condemn one who observes fast, or one who does not observe (in a journey). for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) observed fast in a journey or he did not observe it (too) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. al-Hasan is reported to have said that he heard Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with both of them) as saying that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a man. The rest of the hadith is the same as mentioned above (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We went out on an expedition with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) during Ramadan and neither the observer of the fast was found fault with for his fasting, nor the breaker of the fast for breaking it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Nadra reported Abu Sa'id al. Khudri and Jabir b. Abdullah as saying:We travelled with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). The observer of the fast observed it, and the breaker of the fast broke it, but none of them found fault with each other (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Hamza b. 'Amr al-Aslami asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about fasting on a journey, and he (the Holy Prophet) said:Fast if you like and break it if you like (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Hamza b. Amr al-Aslami asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) thus:Messenger of Allah, I am a person devoted much to fasting. Should I fast during the journey? He (the Holy Prophet) said: Fast if you like and break it if you like (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters that Hamza said:I am a person much used to fasting. Should I fast during the journey? (The rest of the hadith is the same) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Nadr with the same chain of transmitters, but he did not mention that he was mounting (riding on) his camel (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Abu Nadr on the authority of Umair, the freed slave of Umm al-Fadl, through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported. In the pre-Islamic days fast was observed on the day of Ashura, but with the advent of Islam (its position was ascertained as that of a voluntary fast). Then he who wished to fast fasted, and he who liked to abandon it abandoned it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abdullah through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that the day of 'Ashura was mentioned before the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he narrated a hadith like one (narrated above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qais b Sakan reported that al-Ash'ath b. Qais went to 'Abdullah on the day of 'Ashura while he was eating. He said:Abu Muhammad, come near and dine. Upon this he said: I am fasting. Thereupon he said: We used to observe fast and then (this practice) was abandoned (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters that be heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying on a similar day:I am fasting today, so he who wishes to observe fast should do so; but he did not make mention of the rest of the hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Bishr with the same chain of transmitters (but with a slight variation) that he (the Holy Prophet) inquired of them (Jews) about it (fasting on the day of 'Ashura) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ayyub with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa (Allah be pleased with him) reported:The day of 'Ashura was one which the Jews respected and they treated it as Id. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: You also observe fast on this day (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported that the people of Khaibar (most of them were Jews) observed fast on the day of 'Ashura and they treated it as 'Id and gave their women ornaments and beautiful dresses to wear. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:You (only) observe fast on this day (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas was asked about observing of fast on the day of Ashura, whereupon he said:I do not know Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) singling out any day's fast and considering it more excellent than another, except this day (the day of Ashura) and this month, meaning the month of Ramadan (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah b. Abi Yazid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hakam b. 'Araj reported:I asked Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) as he was reclining using his cloak as a pillow near Zamzam about fasting on 'Ashura. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b 'Abbas reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had said:If I live till the next (year), I would definitely observe fast on the 9th, and the narration transmitted by Abu Bakr is:" He meant the day of Ashura (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade fasting on these two days. 'Id-ul-Adha and 'Id-ul-Fitr (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade to observe fast on two days the day of Fitr and the day of Sacrifice ('Id-ul-Adha) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade to observe fast on two days-the day of Fitr and the day of Adha (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nubaisha al-Hudhali reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The days of Tashriq are the days of eating and drinking (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nabaisha reported that Khalid said:I met Abu Malih and asked him and he narrated it to me from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). a hadith like one (narrated above) with this addition:" And remembrance of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibrahim b. Tahman with the same chain of transmitters but with this variation that he said:Both of them made the announcement (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. 'Abbas b. Ja'far reported:I asked Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with both of them) as he was circumambulating the House (Ka'ba) whether the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had forbidden the fasting on Friday, whereupon he said: Yes, by the Lord of this House (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. 'Abbas b. Ja'far reported that he asked Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them), whether he had heard like this from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:None among you should observe fast on Friday, but only that he observes fast before it and after it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama reported:I heard 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) as saying: I had to complete some of the fasts of Ramadan, but I could not do it but during the month of Sha'ban due to my duties to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) or with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Yahya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters but with this variation that he said that ('A'isha did not observe fast but in Sha'ban) out of regard for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
In another version of the previous hadith, the words are:" Yahya said: I think it was due to the regard for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Yahya with the same chain of transmitters but no mention is made of the duty to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone dies in a state (that he had to complete) some fasts, his heir must fast on his behalf (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Buraida (Allah be pleased with him) reported on the authority of his father:I was sitting with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ; the rest of the hadith is the same but with this variation that the (the narrator) said:" Fasts of two months (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Buraida (Allah be pleased with him) reported on the authority of his father:A woman came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and the rest of the hadith is the same, but he said:" Fasting of one month (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sufyan with the same chain of transmitters in which it is said:" Fasting of two months (from eng-muslim.txt)
Buraida (Allah be pleased with him) reported a similar hadith on the authority of his father that a woman came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he said:" Fasting for one month (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:If any one of you is invited to a meal when he is fasting, he should say:" I am fasting (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported:When any one of you gets up in the morning in the state of fasting, he should neither use obscene language nor do any act of ignorance. And if anyone slanders him or quarrels with him, he should say:" I am fasting, I am fasting (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Fasting is a shield (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated on the authority of Abu Sinan with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" As he meets Allah, He rewards him, and he is happy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Suhail with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who observes fast for a day in the way of Allah He would remove his face from the Hell to the extent of seventy years' distance (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone forgets that he is fasting and eats or drinks he should complete his fast, for it is only Allah Who has fed him and given him drink (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abdullah b. Shaqiq but in the chain of transmitters no mention is made of Hisham and Muhammad (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Bishr with the same chain of transmitters (with a slight variation of words and these are), that he (the narrator) said:" During any month continuously since he came to Medina (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same hadith as the previous hadith has been transmitted through another chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Amr b. al-'As (Allah be pleased with them) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'Abdullah, don't be like so and so who observed prayer during the whole night and then abandoned it (altogether) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Juraij with the same chain of transmitters. Imam Muslim has narrated this hadith on the authority of Abu 'Abbas al-Sa'ib b. Farrukh and he was a trustworthy and reliable (narrator) among the people of Mecca (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Habib b. Abu Thabit with the same chain of transmitters and he said:" And you would become exhausted (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ghailan b. Jarir with the same chain of transmitters, but with one variation, that there has been made mention of Monday and not of Thursday (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada Ansari (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Massenger (ﷺ) was asked about fasting on Monday, whereupon he said:It is (the day) when I was born and revelation was sent down to me (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by 'Abdullah b. Hani b. Akhi Mutarrif with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Haraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The most excellent fast after Ramadan is God's month. al-Muharram, and the most excellent prayer after what is prescribed is prayer during the night (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) by 'Abd al-Malik with the same chain of transmitters in connection with fast (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ayyub al-Ansari (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who observed the fast of Ramadan and then followed it with six (fasts) of Shawwal. it would be as if he fasted perpetually (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ayyub al-Ansari reported (through another chain of transmitters):I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ayyub reported a hadith like this (through another chain of transmitters) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Seek Lailat-ul-Qadr in the last week (of Ramadan) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim reported on the authority of his father that a person saw Lailat-ul- Qadr on the 27th (of Ramadan). Thereupon Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:I see that your dreams agree regarding the last ten (nights of Ramadan). So seek it on an odd number (of these ten nights) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Seek it (Lailat-ul-Qadr) in the last (ten nights). If one among you shows slackness and weakness (in the earlier part of Ramadan), it should not be allowed to prevail upon him in the last week (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who is anxious to seek it (Lailat-ul-Qadr) should seek it in the last ten (nights of Ramadan) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Seek the time of Lailat-ul-Qadr in the last (ten nights), or he said: in the last nine (nights) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) and Ibn Numair reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Look for (and in the words of Waki, seek) Lailat-ul-Qadr in the last ten nights of Ramadan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with both of them) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe i'tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to observe i'tikaf in the last ten days of Ramadan (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that the Messenger of Allah (may peace he upon him) used to observe i'tikif in the last ten days of Ramadan till Allah called him back (to his heavenly home). Then his wives observed i'tikaf after him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported through another chain of transmitters, and there it is mentioned that. 'A'isha, Hafsa and Zainab (Allah be pleased with them) pitched the tents for i'tikaf (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that when the last ten nights began Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kept awake at night (for prayer and devotion), wakened his family, and prepared himself to observe prayer (with more vigour) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to exert himself in devotion during the last ten nights to a greater extent than at any other time (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fasting in the ten days of Dhu'I-Hijja (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:The Apostle of Allah (ﷺ) did not observe fast in the ten days of Dhul-Hijja (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the Muhrim to put on a cloth dyed in saffron or wars and he further said:One who does not find shoes (to wear) he may wear stockings, but (only) after trimming them below the ankles (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. Dinar narrated with the same chain of transmitters that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) delivering sermon at 'Arafat, and he made a mention of this hadith (as quoted above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Amr b. Dinar with the same chain of transmitters, but none of them (the narrators) made a mention that he (the Holy Prophet) was delivering address at 'Arafat except Shu'ba (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who does not find shoes to wear may wear socks, and he who does not find lower garment to wear may put on trousers (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Zubair reported that he heard Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) saying that as he was asked about (the places for entering upon the) state of ihram, he said:I heard (and he then carried the narration directly, I think to) the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I immediately learnt Talbiya from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he then narrated the hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pronounced Talbiya in Dhu'l-Hulaifa as he put his feet in the stirrup and his camel stood up and proceeded (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pronounced Talbiya as his camel stood up (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) riding on his camel at Dhu'l-Hulaifa and pronouncing Talbiya as it stood up with him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spent the night at Dhu'l-Hulaifa while commencing (the rites of) Pilgrimage and he observed prayer in the mosque (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I applied perfume to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) before he entered upon the state of lhram and (concluding) before circumambulating the (sacred) House (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her), the wife of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), reported:I applied perfume to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with my own hand before he entered upon the state of Ihram, and as he concluded it before circumambulating the House (for Tawaf-i-lfada) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I used to apply perfume to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) before his entering upon the state of Ihram and at the conclusion of it, before circumambulating the House (for Tawaf Ifada) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said:I applied perfume to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as he became free from Ihram and as he entered upon it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said:I applied perfume of Dharira to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with my hand (on the occasion of) the Farewell Pilgrimage on freeing from the state of Ihram and entering upon it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uthman b. 'Urwa reported on the authority of his father that he said:I asked 'A'isha with what thing she perfumed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at the time of entering upon the state of Ihram. She said: With the best of perfume (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I applied the best perfume, which I could get, to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) before entering upon the state of Ihram (and after this) he put on the Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I applied the best available perfume I could find to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) before he entered upon the state of Ihram and after he was free from it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I still seem to see the glistening of the perfume where the hair parted on Allah's Messenger's (ﷺ) head and he was free from Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I still seem to see the glistening of the perfume where the hair parted on Allah's Messenger's (ﷺ) head, while he was pronouncing Talbiya (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I still seem to see; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said:I still seem to see the glistening of the perfume where the hair was parted on Allah's Messeinger's (ﷺ) head while he was in the state of Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I still seem to perceive the glistening of perfume where the hair was parted on Allah's Messenger's (ﷺ) head as he was in the state of Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) intended to enter upon the state of Ihram he perfumed himself with the best of perfumes which he could find and after that I saw the glistening of oil on his head and beard (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I still seem to see the glistening of musk (in the parting of the head) of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) while he was in the state of Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I used to apply perfume to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He then went round his wives, and entered upon the state of Ihram in the morning and the perfume was shaken off (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith (pertaining to this topic), has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri (and the words are):" I presented to him (the Holy Prophet) a wild ass (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (the narrator having) said this:" I presented to him the flesh of a wild ass (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported that al-Sa'b b. Jaththama presented to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) a wild ass as he was in a state of Ihram, and he returned it to him saying:If we were not in a state of Ihram, we would have accepted it from you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith pertaining to the wild ass is reported on the authority of Abu Qatada. The rest of the hadith is the same but with this (variation of words) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:" Is there with you some of its flesh? (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported Allah'* Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Five are the harmful things which should be killed in the state of Ihram or otherwise: snake, speckled crow. rat. voracious dog, and kite (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Five are the vicious beasts which should be killed even in the state of Ihram: scorpion, rat, kite, crow and voracious dog (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Mdssenger (ﷺ) having said this:Five are the vicious and harmful things which should be killed even within the precincts of Haram: rat, scorpion, crow. kite and voracious dog (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters that she (A'isha) reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded to kill five harmful things in the state of lhram or otherwise. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
IA'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Five are the beasts 1618 harmful and vicious and these must be killed even within the precincts of the Ka'ba: crow, kite, voracio@s dog, kcorpion and rat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hafsa, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said this:There are five beasts, all of them are vicious and harmful and there is no sin for one who kills them (and these are): scorpion, crow, kite, rat and voracious dog (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Jubair reported:A person asked Ibn Umar which beast a Muhrim could kill. Thereupon he said: One of the wives of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) told me: He (the Holy Prophet) commanded to kill rat, scorpion, kite, voracious dog and crow (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Five are the beasts for killing which there is no sin for the Muhrim: crows, kites, scorpions, rats and wild dogs (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith was reported with other chains from Nafi' on the authority of Ibn 'Umar, but there was difference in the wording in how the attributed the chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
(This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through be upon him) as saying:Five (are the beasts) in killing which or their being killed in the precinct of the Ka'ba there is no sin." The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messen- ger (ﷺ) as saying:Five (are the animals) which, it one kills them In the state of Ihram, entail no sin for one (who does it): scorpion, rat, voracious dog, crow and kite (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Ayyub (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got himself cupped in the state of lhrim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Buhaina reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got himself cupped in the middle of his head on his way to Mecca (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zaid b. Aslam with the same chain of transmitters that Abu Ayyub rubbed his whole head with his hands and then moved them forward and backward. Miswar said to Ibn 'Abbas:I would never dispute with you (in future) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of A'isha through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn `Abbas (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Duba`a intended to perform Hajj, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded her (to enter into the state of Ihram) with condition. She did it in compliance with the command of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Asma' bint `Umais gave birth to Muhammad b Abu Bakr near Dhu'l-Hulaifa. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded Abu Bakr to convey to her that she should take a bath and then enter into the state of Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. `Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported that when Asma' bint `Umais gave birth (to a child) in Dhu'l-Hulaifa. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded Abu Bakr (to convey to her) that she should take a bath and enter into the state of Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'Isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered into the state of Ihram for Hajj Afrad (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said:Some among us put on Ihram for Hajj alone (Hajj Mufrad) ; some of us for Hajj and Umra together (Qiran), and some of us for Tamattal (first for Umra and after completing it for Hajj) (from eng-muslim.txt)
AI-Qasim b. Muhammad reported that A'isha had come for Hajj (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadlth has been narrated by Yahya through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased, with her) reported:We went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pronouncing Talbiya having no explicit intention of Pilgrimage or 'Umra. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that she entered in the monthly period at Sarif, and took bath at 'Arafa (after the period was over). The messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to her:Your circumambulation between al Safa and al-Marwa is enough for your Hajj and 'Umra (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. Abu Bakr reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered him to mount A'isha behind him and enable her to (enter into the state of Ihram for 'Umra) at Tan'im (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah is reported to have said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) and she was weeping. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered us to put on Ihram (again) as we proceeded towards Mina after we had put it off (i. e. 'on the 8th of Dhu'l-Hijja). So we pronounced Talbiya at al-Abtah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatada narrated this hadith with the same chain of transmitters saying:(That 'Umar also said): Separate your Hajj from 'Umra, for that is the most complete Hajj, and complete your Umra (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported:We came with the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) pronouncing Talbiya for Hajj, and the Messenger of Allah (May peace be upon him) commanded us to make (our Ihram) into that of Umra (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) proceeded to Mecca, he came to it (the Black Stone). he kissed it. and moved to his right. and moved quickly in three circuits, and walked in four circuits (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr (Allah be pleased with him) said that Tamattu' in Hajj was a special (concession) only for the Companions of Muhammad (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr (Allah be pleased with him) reported:Tamattu' in Hajj was a special concession for us (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr (Allah be pleased with him) said:Two are the Mut'as which were not permissible but only for us, i. e. temporary marriage with women and Tamattu' in Hajj (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ghunaim b. Qais said:I asked Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas (Allah be pleased with him) about Mut'a, whereupon he said: We did that, and it was the day when he was an unbeliever living in (one of the) houses of Mecca (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sulaiman Taimi with the same chain of transmitters and in his narration (he) refers to Mu'awiya (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Sulaiman (but with a slight modification of words) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith been narrated on the authority of Jurairi with the same chain of transmitters, and Ibn Hatim said in his narration:" A person said according to his personal opinion, and it was Umar (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mutarrif with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is transmitted on the authority of Imran b. Husain, but with this variation that he ('Imran) said:We did that (Tamattu') in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he did not say anything but he (the Holy Prophet) commanded us to do it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha. The wife of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), concerning his Tamattu' of Hajj and 'Umra and performing of Tamattu' by people in his company (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hafsa (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I said: Messenger of Allah what is the matter with you that you have not put off Ihram? The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hafsa (Allah be pleased with her) said:Messenger of Allah; the rest of the hadith is the same and (the concluding words of the Holy Prophet):" I won't put off Ihram until I have sacrificed the animal (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' thus reported on the authority of Ibn Umar:We entered into the state of Ihram with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for Hajj Mufrad and in the narration of Ibn 'Aun (the words are):" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered into the state of Ihram (with the intention) of Hajj Mufrad (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but with this variation (of words):" Talha and another person also were among those who had not brought the sacrificial animals with them and so they put off Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) 'is reported to have said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) put on Ihigm for Hajj. When four days of Dhu'l-Hijja were over, he led the dawn prayer, and when the prayer was complete, he said: He who wants to change it to Umra may do so (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters but with this variation (of words):" When Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) came to Dhu'l-Hulaifa" and he made no mention (of the fact) that he led the Zuhr prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that Mu'awiya had said to them:Do you know that I clipped some hair from the head of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at al- Marwa with the help of a clipper? I said: I do not know it except as it verdict against you (from eng-muslim.txt)
jibir and Abil Salld al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with them) reported:We went with Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and we were pronouncing Talbiya for Hajj loudly (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Salim b. Hayyin with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hanzala b. 'Ali al-Aslaml reported that he had heard Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) as saying that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said:By Him In Whose Hand is my life; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatada said:I asked Anas (Allah be pleased with him) as to how many Pilgrimages had been performed by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and he replied: One Hajj and four `Umras were performed by him. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to come out (of Medina) by way of al-Shajarah and entered it by the way of al-Mu'arras and whenever he entered Mecca, he entered it from the upper side and went out of it from the lower side (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters and in the narration transmitted by Zubair (it is mentioned) that the upper side is that'which is at al-Batha (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that when Allah's Messenger may peace be upon him) came to Mecca he entered from its upper side and came out from its lower side (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered Mecca during the year of Victory from Kada I. e. from the upper side. Hisham said.. My father entered It from both the Fides, but generally he entered from Kada (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) did not enter Mecca without spending the night at Dhi Tawu until it was dawn, when he took a bath, and then entered Mecca in the morning, and made a mention that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) did that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported:I saw that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to Mecca and kissed the Black Stone, (in the first circumambulation) he moved quickly in three circuits out of seven circuits (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported on the authority of Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) walked swiftly from stone to stone in three circuits and walked (normally) in four (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that Ibn Umar (Allah he pleased with them) walked swiftly from stone to stone, and stated that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) walking swiftly from the Black Stone till he completed three circuits up to it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b." Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) walked swiftly in three circuitsfrom stone to stone (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of jurairi with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of words (and this is) that he (the narrator) did not say:" They felt jealous of him. but said: The people of Mecca, were jealous people (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tufail reported:I said to Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them): People are of the view that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) moved quickly round the House and between al-Safa and al-Marwa, and (thus) it is Sunnah. He said: They told the truth and they told the lie (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:Allah. 's Messenger (peace be upon him) observed Sa'i and walked quickly round the House with a view to showing his strength to the polytheists (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ahdullah b. Umar (reported) that he had not seen Allah's Messenger (way peace he upon him) touching anything in the House, except the two Yamani corners (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported on the authority of 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with him) that Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) did not touch but the Stone and the Yamani corner (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported:I have not abandoned touching of Yamani corners (and kissing of) the Stone since I saw Allah's messneger (ﷺ) touching them both In hardship and ease (from eng-muslim.txt)
NAfi' (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I saw'lbn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) touching the Stone with his hand and then kissing his hand. and he said: I have never abandoned it since I saw Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) doing It (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) is reported to have said that he did not see Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) touching other than the Yamani corners (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Umar (Allah be pleased with him) kissed the Stone and said:I am kissing you, whereas I know that you are a stone, but I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kissing you (that Is why I kiss you) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abis b. Rabi'a reported:I saw 'Umar (Allah'be pleased with him) kissing the Stone and saying: I am kissing you and I know that you are a stone. And if I had not seen Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) kissing you, I would not have kissed you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Suwaid b. Ghafala reported:I saw Umar (Allah be pleased with him) kissing the Stone and clinging to it and saying: I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having great love for you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sufyan with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" That he ('Umar) said: But I saw Abu'l-Qasim (way peace be upon him) having great love for you." And he did not mention about clinging to it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) circumambulated the House on the occasion of the Farewell Pilgrimage on the back of his camel and touched the Corner (of Black Stone) with a stick (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) circumambulated the Ka'ba on the back of his camel on the occasion of the Farewell Pilgrimage and touched the corner and he did not like that the people should be pushed away from him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tufail reported:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) circumambulating the House. and touching the corner with a stick that he had with him, and then kissing the stick (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and his Companions did not observe Sa'i between al-Safa' and al-Marwa but only one Sa'i (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Juraij reported on the same authority a hadith like that, and said:But one Tawaf and that was the first Tawaf (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah narrated to us as we had gathered (at Muzdalifa):I have heard from one upon whom Surah al-Baqara was revealed (the Holy Prophet) pronouncing Talbiya at this place (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported on the authority of his father (Allah be pleased with them). He said:As we proceeded in the morning along with AUbs Messenger (ﷺ) from Mina to 'Arafat, some of us prounced Talbiya, and some pronounced Takbir (Allah-o-Akbar) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters. and in the hadith narrated by Humaid there is an addition (of these words):" Hisham said: Al-nass (speed of camel) is faster than al-'anaq (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Yazid al-Khatmi reported on the authority of Abu Ayyub (Allah be pleased with him) that he prayed the sunset and 'Isha' prayers (together) at Muzdalifa in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the occasion of the Farewell Pilgrimage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Yazid al-Khatmi reported on the authority of Abu Ayyub (Allah be pleased with him) that he prayed the sunset and 'Isha' prayers (together) at Muzdalifa in the company of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the occasion of the Farewell Pilgrimage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) observed the sunset and 'Isha' prayers together at Muzdalifa (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters and said:He (the Holy Prophet) observed the two prayers (together) with one iqama (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar rep rte that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) combined the sunset and 'Isha ' prayers at Muzdalifa. He observed three rak'ahs of the sunset prayer and two rak'ahs of the 'Isha' prayer with one Iqama (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Jubair reported:We came back along with Ibn 'Umar till we reached Muzdalifa. There he led us in the sunset and 'Isha' prayers with one iqama and we then proceeded and he said: This is how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) led us in prayer at this place (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Al-A`mash with a slight variation of words, i.e. he said before its time when it was still dark (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by 'Abd al-Rahman b. al-Qasim with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Juraij with the same chain of transmitters, and In his narration (the words are):" She (Asma') said: My son, Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) granted permission to women (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Shawwal (the freed slave of Umm Habiba) reported that he went to Umm Habiba (the wife of Allah's Apostle) who informed him that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) sent her from Muzdalifa during the night (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated from Umm Habiba:We used to set forth from Muzdalifa to Mina, (very early in the dawn) when it was dark. And in the narration of Naqid (the words are):" We set from Muzdalifa in the darkness (of the dawn) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent me from Muzdalifa ahead (of the caravan) along with the luggage or with the weak ones during (the latter part of the) night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:I was among those (i. e. women and children) whom Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent forth with the weak members of his family (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'mash reported:I heard Hajjaj saying I Do not say Surah al-Baqara. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith nas been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters except with this variation of (words):As he came to Jamrat al-'Aqaba (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I saw Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) flinging pebbles while riding his camel on the Day of Nahr, and he was saying: Learn your rituals (by seeing me performing them), for I do not know whether I would be performing Hajj after this Hajj of mine (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:I saw Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) throwing stones (at Jamrat al 'Aqaba) like pelting of small pebbles (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) flung pebbles at jamra on the Day of Nahr after sunrise, and after that (i. e. on the 11th, 12th and 13th of Dhu'l-Hijja when the sun had declined) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported a hadith like this from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubaidullah reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters and (it is said) that it was on the fourth turn that he (the Holy Prophet) said:(May Allah have mercy upon) those who got their hair clipped (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got his head shaved on the occasion of the Farewell Pilgrimage (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the back of the camel at Mina, and a person came to him," and the rest of the hadith Is like that transmitted by Ibn 'Uyaina (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported that it was said to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) about sacrificing of animals, shaving of one's head, throwing of pebbles, and (the order of) precedence and succession, and he said:There is no harm in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr and 'Umar observed halt at al-Abtah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that Ibn 'Umar regarded halt at Muhassab as Sunnah (of the Holy Prophet) and observed the noon prayer on Yaum al-Nafr at that place. Nafi' said:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) halted at Muhassab and the Caliphs did the same after him (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported.:Halt at al-Abtah is not the Sunnah. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) halted there simply because it was easier for him to depart from there, when he left (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim reported that Abu Bakr, 'Umar and Ibn Umar used to halt at Abtah. 'Urwa narrated from 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) that he did not observe this practice and said:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) halted there, for it is a place from where it was easy to depart (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:Halt at Muhassab is not something (significant from the point of view of the Shari'ah). It is a place of halt where Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) halted (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleated with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:God willing, we will get down tomorrow, at Khaif of Banu Kinanah, the place where they had taken an oath on unbelief (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:God willing, when Allah has granted us victory, our halt tomorrow will be at Khaif, where they (the unbelievers of Mecca) had taken an oath on unbelief (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by 'Ubaidullah b. Umar with the the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
All (Allah be pleased with him) reperted:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) put me in charge of his sacrificial animals, that I should give their flesh. skins and saddle cloths as sadaqa, but not to give anything to the butcher, saying: We would pay him ourselves (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abd al-Karim al-Jazari with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ali (Allah be pleased with him) with another chain of transmitters, but there is no mention of the wages of the butcher in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abi Talib (Allah be pleased with him) reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) put him in charge of his sacrificial animals, and commanded him to distribute the whole of their meat, hides, and saddle cloths to the poor, and not to give to the butcher anything out of them (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Hadrat 'Ali (Allah be pleased with him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with him) reported:In the year of Hudaibiya (6 H ), we, along with Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him), sacrificed a camel for seven persons and a cow for seven persons (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We set out in the state of Ihram for Hajj along, with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He commanded us that seven persons should join in a camel and a cow for offering sacrifice (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We performed Hajj along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and we sacrificed a camel on behalf of seven persons, and a cow on behalf of seven persons (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jaibir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported:We performed Hajj Tamattu' along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and we slaughtered a cow on behalf of seven persons sharing in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sacrificed a cow on behalf of 'A'isha on the Day of Nahr (10th of Dhu'l-Hijja) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sacrificed (animals) on behalf of his wives, and in the hadith transmitted by Ibn Abu Bakr (the words are):" A cow on behalf of 'A'isha on the occasion of the Hajj (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ziyad b. Jubair reported that Ibn 'Umar came upon a person who was slaughtering (sacrificing) his camel and had made him kneel down. So he told him to make it stand up festered (and then sacrifice it) according to the Sunnah of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent the sacrificial animals from Medina. I wove garlands for his sacrificial animals (and then he hung them round their necks), and he would not avoid doing anything which the Muhrim avoids (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Shihab (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha narrated (in another hadith narrated through another chain of transmitters) these words:"As if I am seeing myself weaving the garlands for the sacrificial animals of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent the sacrificial animals and I wove garlands for them with my own 'hands, and he did not refrain from doing anything which he did not avoid in the state of non-Muhrim (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I recall how I wove garlands for the sacrificial animals (the goats) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He sent them and then stayed with us as a non-Muhrim (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah, be pleased, with her) reported:I often wove garlands for the sacrificial animals of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and he garlanded his sacrificial animals, and then he sent them and stayed in the ouse) avoiding nothing which a Muhrim avoids (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon, him) sent some goats as sacrificial animals to the House and He garlanded them (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:We used to garland the goats and send them (to Mecca), and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stayed back in Medina as a non-Muhrim ard nothing was forbidden for him (which is forbidden for a Muhrim) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by A'raj with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" Whereas the person was driving a sacrificial camel which was garlanded (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) happened to pass by a person who was driving a sacrificial camel, whereupon he (the Holy Prophet) said:Ride on It. He said: It is a sacrificial camel. Thereupon he (the Holy Prophet) said twice or thrice: Ride on it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:Someone happened to pass by Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) with a sacrificial camel, or a sacrificial animal, whereupon he said: Ride on it. He said: It is a sacrificial camel, or animal, whereupon he said: (Ride) even if (it is a sacrificial camel) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas (Allah be pleased with him) reported:There happened to pass (a person) with a sacrificial camel by Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported that he was asked about riding on a sacrificial animal, and he said:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Ride on it gently, when you have need for it, until you find (another) mount (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Zubair reported:I asked Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) about riding on the sacrificial animal, to which he replied: I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: Ride on them gently until you find another mount (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent eighteen sacrificial camels with a person. The rest of the hadith is the same, and the first part (of the above-mentioned hadith) is not mentioned (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported:The people were commanded (by the Holy Prophet) to perform the last circumambulation round the House, but menstruating women were exempted (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. al Qasim narrated on the authority of 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) that she made a mention to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that Safiyyah had entered the period of menses. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) through another chain of transmitters, but no mention is made of" sad and downcast (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) entered the Ka'ba, and in it there were six pillars, and he stood near a pillar and made supplication, but did not observe the prayer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Isma'il b. Abu Khalid reported:I asked Abdullah b. Abu Aufa (Allah be pleased with him), a Companion of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), whether Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) had entered the House, while performing 'Umra, He said: NO (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Juraij with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Fadl reported that a woman of Banu Khath'am said:Messenger of Allah, my father is very old. There is an old obligation of Hajj upon him from Allah, but he is not capable of sitting on the back of the camel. Thereupon Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said: Perform Hajj on his behalf (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:A woman lifted up her child and said: Messenger of Allah, would the child be credited with having performed the Hajj? Thereupon he said: Yes, and there would be a reward for you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Karaib reported:A woman lifted a child and said: Messenger of Allah, would he be credited with Hajj? He said: Yes. and for you there would be a reward (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A woman should not set out on three (days' journey) except when she has a Mahram with her (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the same authority by Ubaidullah. And in the narration of Abu Bakr (the words are):" More than three (days)." Ibn Numair narrated on the authority of his father, (and the words are):" Three (days) except (when) she has a Mahram with her (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar (Allah -be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:It is not lawful for a woman who believes in Allah and the Hereafter to travel for more than three nights journey except when there is a Mahram with her (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:A woman should not set out on a journey extending beyond three nights but with a Mahram (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters and he said:" More than three (days) except in the company of a Mahram (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is not lawful for a Muslim woman to travel a night's journey except when there is a Mahram with her (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:It is not lawful for a woman who believes in Allah and the Hereafter to undertake a day's journey except in the company of a Mahram (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is not lawful for a woman believing in Allah and the Hereafter to undertake journey extending over a day and a night except when there is a Mahram with her (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is not lawful for a woman to undertake three (days, ) journey except when there is a Mahram with her (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by 'Amr on the authority of the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Juraij narrated this hadith with the same chain of transmitters, but he made no mention of it:" No person (man) should be alone with a woman except when there is a Mahram with her (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar through another chain of transmitters (but with one alteration) that here Allah-o-Akbar is mentioned twice (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made (his camel) kneel down (i, e. halt at the stony ground of Dhu'l-Hulaifa) and prayed there, and so did Abdullah b. Umar (Allah be pleased with them) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that 'Abdullah b. Umar (Allah be pleased with them) used to halt his camel in the stony ground at Dhu'l-Hulaifa, where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to make a halt (and pray) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that when 'Abdullah b. 'Umar returned from Hajj or 'Umra he made his camel kneel down (i. e. halted) in the stony ground of Dhu'l-Hulaifa where Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had made his camel halt (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim (b. Abdullah b. 'Umar) reported on the authority of his father (Allah be pleased with them) that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) was visited by (someone, i. e. an angel) during the fag end of the night at Dhu'l-Hulaifa, and it was said to him:Verily it is a blessed stony-ground (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no day when God sets free more servants from Hell than the Day of 'Arafa. He draws near, then praises them to the angels, saying: What do these want? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:An Umra is an expiation for the sins committed between it and the next, and Hajj which is accepted will receive no other reward than Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mainsur with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" He who performed Pilgrimage but neither spoke indecently nor acted wickedly (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Usama b. Zaid (Allah be pleased with him) said:Allah's Messenger, God willing, where will you stay tomorrow? And it was at the time of the Conquest (of Mecca). Thereupon he (the Holy Prophet) said: Has 'Aqil left any accommodation for us? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Narrated Usama b. Zaid :Usama b. Zaid (Allah be pleased with him) said: Allah's Messenger, God willing, where will you stay tomorrow? Thereupon he (the Holy Prophet) said: Has 'Aqil left any accommodation for us? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-'Ali' b. al-Hadrami reported Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon as saying:For a Mahijir, it is only three (days') stay at Mecca, after completing (the Hajj or 'Umra) that is allowed, and it seemed as if he was saying that he should not (stay) beyond this (period) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-'Ala' b. al-Hadrami reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Muhijir should stay at Mecca after performing the rituals (of Hajj) but for three (days) only (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-'Ala' b. al-Hadrami reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is only for three nights that a Muhajir should stay at Mecca after the completion of the rituals of Hajj (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-" Ala' b. al-Hadrami reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The stay at Mecca after the completion of his rituals (of Hajj) is only for three days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Juraij narrated this hadith with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) say: It is not permissible for any one of you to carry weapons in Mecca (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah al-Ansari (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) entered Mecca and Qutaiba (another narrator) stated that he entered Mecca in the Year of Victory, wearing a black turban, but not wearing the Ihram (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) entered on the day of Victory of Mecca wearing a black turban on his head (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. Huraith reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) addressed the people (on the day of the Victory of Mecca) with a black turban on his head (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ja'far b. 'Amr b. Huraith reported his father as saying:As if I am seeing Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the pulpit with a black turban on his head, and its two ends hanging between his shoulders. Abu Bakr (another narrator) did not make mention of:" Upon the pulpit (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rafi' b. Khadij reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Ibrahim declared Mecca as sacred and I declare sacred the area between its two stony grounds (lava lands by which he meant Medina) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Ibrahim declared Mecca as sacred; I declare Medina, that between the two mountains, as inviolable. No tree should be lopped and no game is to be molested (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported a hadith like this from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) except with this variation that he said:" I declare sacred the area between its two lava mountains (from eng-muslim.txt)
Asim reported:I asked Anas (Allah be pleased with him) whether Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had declared Medina as sacred. He said: Yes, it is sacred, so its tree is not to be cut; and he who did that let the curse of Allah and that of the angels and of all people be upon him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Allah bless them in their measurements, bless them in their sa's and bless them in their mudd (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik (Allah he pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:O Allah, increase in Medina twice the blessings (Thou showered) on Mecca (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated with the same chain of transmitters by A'mash with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported:If I were to see deer grazing in Medina, I would have never molested them, for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has stated: There is between the two lava mountains a sacred territory (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Kbudri (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:O Allah, bless us in our sa' and mud and shower with its blessings two other blessings (multiply blessings showerted upon it) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated by Yabya b. Abu Kathir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Hunif reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pointed with his hands towards Medina and said:That is a sacred territory and a place of safety (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Hisham b. 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who patiently endures the hardships of it (of this city of Medina), I would be an intercessor or a withness on his behalf on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) said:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: He who patiently endured the hardships and rigours of (this city, i. e. Medina), I would be his witness and intercessor on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) as saying:For one among my Ummah who shows endurance against the hardships and rigours of Medina, I would be an intercessor or a witness on his behalf on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None who shows endurance on the hardships of Medina,... (the rest of the hadith is the same) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There are at the approaches of Medina angels so that plague and the Dajjal shall not penetrate into it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Dajjal will come from the eastern side with the intention of attacking Medina until he will get down behind Uhud. Then the angels will turn his face towards Syria and there he will perish (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Yabya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" Just as a furance removes impurity," but no mention is made of iron (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Thabit reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:It is Taiba, thereby meaning Medina. It drives away impurity just as fire removes the impurity of silver (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura (Allah be pleased with him) reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say:Allah named Medina as Tabba (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Abul-Qasim (Muhammad, may peace be upon him) said:He who intends to do harm to the people of this city (that is, Medina), Allah would efface him as salt is dissolved in water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who intends to do harm to its people (he meant Medina), Allah would efface him as salt is dissolved in water. Ibn Hatim (one of the narrators) substituted the word" harm" for" mischief (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who intends to do harm to the people of Medina, Allah would efface him just as water dissolves salt (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd b. Malik heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying like this except (this variation) that he said:" Sudden attack or harm (from eng-muslim.txt)
AbduUah b. Zaid al-Mazini (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:That which is between my house" and my pulpit is a garden from the gardens of Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Zaid al-Ansari heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:That which exists between my pulpit and my house is a garden from the gardens of Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:That which exists between my house and my pulpit is a garden from the gardens of Paradise, and my pulpit is upon my cistern (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) as saying:Uhud is a mountain which loves us and which we love (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated by Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleased with him) with another chain of transmitters (and the words are):" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cast a glance at Uhud and said: Uhud is a mountain which loves us and we love it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) narrated It directly from Allah's Apostle' (ﷺ) having said this:A prayer in my mosque is a thousand times more excellent than a prayer in any other mosque, except Masjid al-Haram (Mosque of the Ka'ba) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Prayer in my mosque is more excellent than a thousand prayers observed in other mosques except the Masjid al- Haram (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Yabya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Prayer in this mosque of mine is better than a thousand prayers (observed in other mosque.) besides it, except that of Masjid al-Haram (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) a hadlth like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Hurairah (Allah be pleased with him) reported it directly from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) that he said:Do not undertake a journey to visit any Mosque, but three: this Mosque of mine, the Mosque of al-Haram and the Mosque of Aqsa (Bait al-Maqdis) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri (but with this change of words) that he (Allah's Apostle) said:" Undertake journey to three mosques (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Haraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) as saying:One should undertake journey to three mosques: the mosque of the Ka'ba, my mosque, and the mosque of Elia (Bait al-Maqdis) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) a hadlth like this, but in the chain of transmitters no mention was made of Abd al- Rahman b. Abu Sa'id (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited (the mosque) at Quba' riding and on foot (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to the mosque at Quba' riding and on foot, and he observed two rak'ahs of (Nafl prayer) in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to Quba' riding as well as on foot (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to come to Quba' riding and on foot (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar had narrated this hadith through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar used to come to Quba' on every Saturday and he said:I saw Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) coming (to this place) on every Saturday (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to come to Quba', i. e. (he came) on every Saturday, and he used to come riding or on foot. Ibn Dinar (another narrator) said that Ibn Umar used to do like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadlth has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Dinar, but he made no mention of:" Every Saturday (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. Yazid reported on the authority of Abdullah:We went to him, and I was the youngest of all (of us), but he did not mention:" I lost no time in marrying (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas (Allah be pleased with him) reported:The Messengger of Allah (ﷺ) rejected (the idea) of Uthman b. Muz'unliving in celibacy (saying): And if he (the Holy Prophet) had given me permission We would have got ourselves castrated (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. al-Musayyib reported:I heard Sa'd (b. Abi Waqqas) saying that the idea of 'Uthman b. Maz'un for living in celibacy was rejected (by the Holy Prophet), and if he had been given permission they would have got themselves castrated (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. al Musayyib heard Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas (Allah be pleased with him) saying that Uthman b. Maz'un decided to live in celibacy, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade him to do so, and if he had permitted him, we would have got ourselves castrated (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saw a woman; and the rest of the hadith was narrated but (with this exception) that he said he came to his wife Zainab, who was tanning a (piece of) leather, and he made no mention of:" She retires in the shape of satan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) say:When a woman fascinates any one of you and she captivates his heart, he should go to his wife and have an intercourse with her, for it would repel what he feels (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jarir with the same chain of transmitters and he also recited this (above-mentioned verse) to us, but he did not say that 'Abdullah recited it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Isma'il with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" We were young, so we said: Allah's Messenger, should we not have ourselves castrated? But he (the narrator) did not say; We were on an expedition (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah and Salama b. al-Akwa' said:There came to us the proclaimer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) has granted you permission to benefit yourselves, i. e. to contract temporary marriage with women (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salama b. al. Akwa' and Jabir b. Abdullah reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to us and permitted us to contract temporary marriage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:We contracted temporary marriage giving a handful of (tales or flour as a dower during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and durnig the time of Abu Bakr until 'Umar forbade it in the case of 'Amr b. Huraith (from eng-muslim.txt)
Iyas b. Salama reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave sanction for contracting temporary marriage for three nights in the year of Autas 1847 and then forbade it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abd al-'Aziz b 'Umar with the same chain of transmitters, and he said:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) standing between the pillar and the gate (of the Ka'ba) and he was relating a hadith as narrated by Ibn Numair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rabi' b. Sabra reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) prohibited the contracting of temporary marriage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rabi' b. Sabra reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade on the Day of Victory to contract temporary marriage with women (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Rabi' b. Sabra that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade to contract temporary marriage with women at the time of Victory, and that his father had contracted the marriage for two red cloaks (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. AbiTalib reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited on the Day of Khaibar the contracting of temporary marriage with women and the eating of the flesh of domestic asses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Malik narrated this hadith on the authority of the same chain of trans- witters that 'Ali b. Abil Talib said to a person:You are a person led astray; Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade us (to do Mut'a), as is stated In the hadith transmitted on the authority of Yahya b. Malik (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. 'Ali narrated on the authority of his father 'Ali that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) on the Day of Khaibar prohibited for ever the contracting of temporary marriage and eating of the flesh of the domestic asses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali (Allah be pleased with him) said to Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) on the Day of Khaibar forbade forever the contracting of temporary marriage and the eating of the flesh of domestic asses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (may peace upon him) having said this:One should not combine a woman and her father's sister, nor a woman and her mother's sister in marriage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported:that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade combining of four women in marriage: a woman with her father's sister, and a woman with her mother's sister (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say: Father's sister should not be combined with her brother's daughter, nor the daughter of a sister with her mother's sister (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:One should not combine in marriage a woman with her father's sister, or her mother's sister (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade to combine a woman and her father's sister, and a woman and her mother's sister (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Amr b. Dinar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uthman b. 'Affan reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said:A Muhrim should neither marry himself, nor should he be got married to anyone, nor should he make the proposal of marriage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uthman (b. 'Affan) reported it directly from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) that he said:A Muhrim should neithermarry (in that state) nor make the proposal of marriage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:Allah's Messenger. (ﷺ) married Maimuna while he was a Muhrim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Yazid b. al-Asamm reported:Maimuna daughter of al-Harith narrated to me that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) married her and he was not in the state of Ihram. And she (Maimuna) was my mother's sister and that of Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as having said this:None amongst you should outbid another in a transaction, nor should he make proposals of marriage upon the proposal made by someone else (from eng-muslim.txt)
Narrated Ibn Umar :The above hadith has been narrated by Ibn Umar through another chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported on the authority of Nafi' with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight alteration (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Muslim should not purchase in opposition to his brother, and he should not make the proposal of marriage on the proposal already made by his brother (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. 'Amir said on the pulpit that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:A believer is the brother of a believer, so it is not lawful for a believer to outbid his brother, and he should not propose an engagement when his brother has thus proposed until he gives it up (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited Shighar which means that a man gives his daughter in marriage on the condition that the other gives his daughter to him in marriage with- out any dower being paid by either (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of" Abdullah b. 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited Shighar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as having said:There is no Shighar in islam (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Vmar with the same chain of transmitters, but there is no mention of Ibn Numair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited Shighar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. Amir (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The most worthy condition which must be fulfilled is that which makes sexual intercourse lawful. In the narration transmitted by Ibn Muthanna (instead of the word" condition" ) it is" conditions (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:A woman without a husband has more right to her person than her guardian, and a virgin's consent must be asked from her, and her silence implies her consent (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A woman who has been previously married (Thayyib) has more right to her person than her guardian. And a virgin should also be consulted, and her silence implies her consent (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) married me when I was six years old, and I was admitted to his house when I was nine years old (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) married her when she was seven years old, and he was taken to his house as a bride when she was nine, and her dolls were with her; and when he (the Holy Prophet) died she was eighteen years old (from eng-muslim.txt)
Narrated 'A'isha :'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) married her when she was six years old, and he (the Holy Prophet) took her to his house when she was nine, and when he (the Holy Prophet) died she was eighteen years old (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sufyan with the same chain of transmitters, but he made no mention of the act of 'A'isha (being admitted as a wife in the house of the Holy Prophet) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sahl b. Sa'd with a minor alteration of words, but the hadith transmitted through Za'idah (the words are that the Holy Prophet) said:Go, I have married her to you, and you teach her something of the Qur'an (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleasedwith him) reported that 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Auf (Allah be pleased with him) married during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for a nawat weight of gold and the messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to him:Give a feast even with a sheep (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleased with him) reported that 'Abd al-Rahman b. 'Auf (Allah be pleased with him) married a woman for a date-stone's weight of gold and Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said to him:Hold a wedding feast, even if only with a sheep (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Humaid with the same chain of transmitters except (with this minor alteration of words) that 'Abd al-Rahman said:" I married a woman (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that 'Abd al-Rahman married a woman for a datestone weight of gold (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba has narrattd this hadith with the same chain of transmitters except for (this alteration) that he said that a person from among the sons of 'Abd al Rahman said:" from gold (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said about one who emancipated a slave woman, and then married her, that for him there are two rewards (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I did not see Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) giving a wedding feast (on the marriage) of any one (of his wives) as he did in the case of (his marriage with) Zainab, for then he sacrificed a goat (on this occasion) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:When any one of you is invited to a feast, he should attend it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you is invited to a feast, he should accept. 'Ubaidallah took this feast to be a wedding feast (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased withthem) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said this:When any one of you is invited to a wedding feast, he should accept that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (may be upon him) having said this:Accept the feast, when you are invited (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you invites his brother, he (the latter) should accept his wedding feast, or any other like it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleated with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:He who is invited to a wedding feast or like it, he should accept it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messen- ger (ﷺ) as saying:Come to the feast, when you are invited (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said:When you are invited to a feast (even though it is) the leg of the sheep, you should accept it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) said:When any one of you is invited to a feast, he should accept it. He may eat if he likes, or he may abandon (eating) if he likes. Ibn Mathanni did not make mention of the word" feast (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abd Zubair with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Haraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If any one of you is invited, he should accept (the invitation). In case he is fasting, he should pray (in order to bless the inmates of the house), and if he is not fasting he should eat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) used to say:The worst kind of food is the wedding feast to which the rich are invited and the poor are ignored. He who does not come to the feast, he in fact disobeys Allah and His Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters. A hadith like this has been narrated by Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Haraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying. The worst kind of food is at the wedding feast from which one who comes is turned away, and he who refuses it is invited, and he who did not accept the invitation disobeyed Allah and His Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the same chain of transmitters by 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated through another chain of transmitters and there is no mention of (the words)" Bismillah" (In the name of Allah) in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) declared that the Jews used to say:When a man has intercourse with his wife through the vagina but being on her back. the child will have squint, so the verse came down:" Your wives are your tilth; go then unto your tilth as you may desire" (ii) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:When a woman spends the night away from the bed of her husband, the angels curse her until morning (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through the same chain of transmitters (with a slight variation):" He said: Until she comes back (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:By Him in Whose Hand is my life, when a man calls his wife to his bed, and she does not respond, the One Who is in the heaven is displeased with her until he (her husband) is pleased with her (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah he pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (may, peace be upon him) as saying:When a man invites his wife to his bed and she does not come, and he (the husband) spends the sight being angry with her, the angels curse her until morning (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah he pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (may peace be upoin him) said:The most wicked among the people in the eye of Allah on the Day of judgment is the men who goes to his wife and she comes to him, and then he divulges her secret (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Habban with the same chain of transmitters (but with this alteration) that he said:" Allah has ordained whom he has to createuntil the Day of judgment (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) (was asked if he had heard it himself), to which he said:Yes. (I heard) Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: There is no harm if you do not practise it, for it (the birth of the child) is something ordained (by Allah) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Abu Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation (of words) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Aun reported:I reported to Muhammad on the authority of Ibrahim the hadith reported by 'Abd al-Rahmann b. Bishr (the hadith concerning 'azl), where- upon he said: That (hadith) Abd al-Rahman b. Bishr had narrated to me (also) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ma'bad b. Sirin said to Abu Sa'id (Allah be pleased with him):Did you hear Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) making a mention of something in regard to al-'azl? Thereupon he said: Yes. The rest (of the hadith is the same) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about 'azl, whereupon he said:The child does not come from all the liquid (sermen) and when Allah intends to create anything nothing can prevent it (from coming into existence) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted by Abu Sa'id from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported:A person came to Allah's Apostle (the rest of the hadith is the same) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We used to practise 'azl while the Qur'an was revealed (during the days when the Prophet was alive) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We used to practise 'azl during the life of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We used to practise 'azl during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). This (the news of this practise) reached Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), and he did not forbid us (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba (from eng-muslim.txt)
Judama bint Wahb al-Asadiyya (Allah be pleased with her) reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying this. The rest of the hadith is the same concerning 'azl and ghila (cohabitating with a suckling woman), but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:"What becomes unlawful through breastfeeding is that which becomes unlawful through birth (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith is narrated through another chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" The brother of Abu'l-Qu'ais sought permission from her ('A'isha) (to enter the house). The rest is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated on the authority of Hammam, Sa'id, Bishr b 'Umar, but with a small variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith is narratted through other chains except they did not mention 'Azza like the chain of Yazid Bin Abi Habib (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her), Suwaid and Zubair reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:One suckling or two do not make (marriage) unlawful (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Fadl (Allah be pleased with her) reported that a person from Banu 'Amir b. Sa'sa said:Allah's Apostle, does one suckling make the (marriage) unlawful? He said: No (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Fadl (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:Being suckled once or twice, or one suckling or two, do not make marriage unlawful (from eng-muslim.txt)
In the narration transmitted on the authority of Ibn Bishr there is a mention of two sucklings and Ibn Abu Shaiba has narrated it with a small variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Fadl (Allah be pleased with her) reported Allah's Apostle (may peace be'apon him) having said this:One or two sucklings do not make (the marriage) unlawful (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Fadl (Allah be pleased with her) reported that a person asked Allah's Apostle (ﷺ):Does one suckling make (the marriage) unlawful? He said: No (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amra reported that she heard 'A'isha (Allah he pleased with her) discussing fosterage which (makes marriage) unlawful; and she ('A'isha) said:There was revealed in the Holy Qur'an ten clear sucklings, and then five clear (sucklings) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ahadith like this is transmitted by 'A'isha through another chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abu al-Ahwas with another chain of transmitters and a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Likewise, the above hadith has been narrated through another chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatada reported a hadith like this with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Uyaiyna and Ma'mar (and the words are):The child is attributed to him on whose bed he is born; but they did not mention this:" For a fornicator there is stoning (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The child is to be attributed to one on whose bed he is born, and for a fornicator there is stoning (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri and Yunus said:Mujazziz was a physiognomist (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Humaid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qilaba reported on the authority of Anas:It is the Sunnah to stay with a virgin (after having married her) for a week. Khalid (one of the narrators) said: If wish I can say that it can be traced up to the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Juraij narrated a hadith with the same chain of transmitters, and she (Hadrat Maimuna) was the last of them to die at Medina (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A woman may be married for four reasons: for her property, her status. her beauty and her religion, so try to get one who is religious, may your hand be besmeared with dust (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Amr reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The whole world is a provision, and the best object of benefit of the world is the pious woman (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Woman is like a rib. When you attempt to straighten it, you would break it. And if you leave her alone you would benefit by her, and crookedness will remain in her (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is reported by another chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A believing man should not hate a believing woman; if he dislikes one of her characteristics, he will be pleased with another (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Had it not been for Eve, woman would have never acted unfaithfully towards her husband (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah, but he made no mention of the words of Ubaidullah that he said to Nafi (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this was reported on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of narrators. Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them), however, said:I took her back, and counted this pronouncement of divorce (as valid) with which I divorced her (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Ayyub with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation in wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
The story in the above hadith has likewise been narrated through another chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is reported on the same authority (but with this difference that the narrator) 'Abd al-Rahman b. Aiman (was mentioned) as the freed slave of 'Urwa (Imam Muslim said:He made a mistake who said that it was 'Urwa; it was in fact the freed slave of 'Azza) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported about (declaring of one's woman) unlawful as an oath which must be atoned, and Ibn 'Abbas said:Verily, there is in the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) a model pattern for you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:When a man declares his wife unlawful for himself that is an oath which must be atoned, and he said: There is in the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) a noble pattern for you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has likewise been narrated through another chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave us the option (to get divorce) but we did not deem it as divorce (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave option to his wives, but it was not a divorce (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave us the option (to get divorce) and we chose him and he did not count it a divorce (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:Allah's Messeinger (ﷺ) gave us the option (to get divorce), but me made a choice of him and he did not count anything (as divorce) in regard to us (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of 'A'isha through another chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Fatima bint Qais reported:I had been married to a person from Banu Makhzum and he divorced me with irrevocable divorce. I sent a message to his family asking for maintenance allowance, and the rest of the hadith has been transmitted with a slight change of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted through another chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been trarismitted on the authority of Hushaim through another chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Fatima bint Qais (Allah be pleased with her) reported from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that there is no lodging and maintenance allowance for a woman who has been given irrevocable divorce (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Ishaq with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakr reported:I and Abu Salama came to Fatima bint Qais (Allah be pleased with her) during the time of Ibn Zubair (Allah be pleased with him) and she narrated to us that her husband gave her an irrevocable divorce. (The rest of the hadith is the same) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Fatima bint Qais (Allah be pleased with her) reported:My husband divorced me with three pronouncements and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made no provision for lodging and maintenance allowance (from eng-muslim.txt)
Fatima bint Qais (Allah be pleased with her) reported that she said:Allah's Messenger, my husband has divorcee me with three pronouncements and I am afraid that I may be put to hardship, and so he commanded her and so she moved (to another house) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) said:It is no good for Fatima to make mention of it, i. e. her statement:" There is no lodging and maintenance allowance (for the divorced women) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narated with the same chain of transrmitters except with a small change of words (and that is):They sent him to Umm Salama, but no mention was made of Kuraib (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith was narrated by Zainab from her mother and from Zainab, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), or from some other lady from among the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith was narrated by Zainab from her mother and from Zainab, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), or from some other lady from among the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Humaid b. Nafi' narrated two traditions from Umm Salama dealing with collyrium and the other hadith from the wives of Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) except with this that no mention was made of Zainab (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is transmitted on the authority of Nafi (from eng-muslim.txt)
Safiyya bint Abu 'Ubaid narrated this tradition of Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) on the authority of some wives of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is not permissible for a woman believing in Allah and the Hereafter to observe mourning on the dead for more than three (days), except in case of her husband (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of narrators but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated by Ibn Numair with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) effected separation between the two members of Banu al-'Ajlan, and said:Allah knows that one of you is a liar. Is there one to repent among you? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Jubair reported:I asked Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) about invoking curse (li'an), and he narrated Similarly from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported on the authority of Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) that a person invoked curse on the wife during the lifetime of Allah s Messenger (ﷺ), so he effected separation between them and traced the lineage of the son to his mother (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked a person from the Anger and his wife to invoke curse (upon one another in order to testify to their truthfulness), and then effected separation between them (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidulah with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated on the authority of A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) through another chain of transmitters with the addition of these words:'With flesh, and curly tangled hair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Sa'd b. Ubada (Allah be pleased with him) said:Messenger of Allah, if I were to find with my wife a man, should I wait until I bring four witnesses? He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority, of 'Abd al-Malik b. Umair with the same chain of narraters but with a slight change of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The slave who is jointly owned by two persons, and is emancipated by one of them, (this one) has liability (upon him to secure complete freedom for that slave) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is reported on the authority of the same chain of transmitters but with a slight change of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the husband of Barira was a slave (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) forbade the selling and making a gift of the right of inheritance of a slave. Imam Muslim said:All the persons depend upon Abdullah b. Dinar in regard to this hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone emancipates a Muslim slave, Allah will set free from Hell an organ of his body for every organ of his (slave's) body (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (may peace benpon him) as saying:He who emancipates a slave, Allah will set free from Hell every limb (of his body) for every limb of his (slave's) body, even his private parts (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: He who emancipates a believing slave. Allah will set free from Fire his every limb for every limb of his (slave's), even his private parts for his (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Suhail with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (two types of transactions) Mulamasa and Munabadha (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported like this from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a hadith like this through another chain cf transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade a transaction determined by throwing stones, and the type which involves some uncertainty (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah (b. 'Umar) (Allah be pleased with him) said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the transaction called habal al-habala (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as having said this:One amongst you should not enter into a transaction when another is bargaining (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A Muslim should not purchase (in opposition) to his brother (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters but with a slight change of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the outbidding (against another) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not go out to meet merchandise in the way, (wait) until it is brought into the market. This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn Numair but with a slight change of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of 'Ubaidullah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Do not meet the traders (in the way) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) as saying:Do not meet the merchandise (in the way) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The townsman should not sell for a man from the desert, leave the people alone, Allah will give them provision from one another. Yahya reported it with a slight change of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported a similar hadith from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We were forbidden that a townsman should sell for a man of the desert, even if he is his brother or father (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleased with him) said:We were forbidden that a townsman should sell for a man of the desert (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who buys a goat with its udder tied up has the option to retain the goat if he so desires or return it within three days, and in case he returns it he should do so along with a sa' of dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:lie who buys a goat having its udder tied up has the option to return it within three days. If he returns it he should pay a sa' of dates. Wheat is not essential (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who buys a goat having its udder tied up has two courses left for him. He may retain it, and if he desires may return it along with a sa' of dates and not wheat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ayyub narrated with the same chain of transmitters but with this change of words:" He who buys a goat has the option (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who buys foodgrain should not sell it until he has taken possession of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who buys food-rain should not sell it until he has taken possession of it. Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) said: I regard everything like food (so far as this principle is concerned) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who buys foodgrain should not sell it until he has taken full possession of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who bought foodgrain should not sell it until he had taken full possession of it (after measuring it) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying,:He who bought foodgrain should not sell it until he had taken possession of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who bought foodgrain should not sell it until he had measured it. In the narration of Abu Bakr there the word is Ibta' instead of Ishtara (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When you purchase foodgrains, do not sell them until you have taken possession of them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) is reported to have said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of a heap of dates the weight of which is unknown in accordance with the known weight of dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) but with this variation that no mention is made of the dates (which one finds) at the end of the previous hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Both parties in a business transaction have the right to annul it so long as they have not separated; except in transactions which have been made subject to the right of parties to annul them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no transaction between two persons entering a transaction until they separate, but only when there is an option to annul it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Hakim b. Hizam (Imam Muslim) said:Hakim b. Hizam was born inside the Ka'ba and lived for one hundred and twenty years (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Dinar with the same chain of transmitters but these words are not found in it." When he buys he should say:There should be no attempt to deceive (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of fruits until they were clearly in good condition, he forbade it both to the seller and to the buyer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another chain on the authority of Ibn 'Umar narrated the same as the above hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of palm-trees (i. e. their trults) until the dates began to ripen, and ears of corn until they were white and were safe from blight. He forbade the seller and the buyer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not buy fruit until its good condition becomes clear, and (the danger) of blight is no more. He said: Its good condition becoming clear implies that it becomes red or yellow (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported or the authority of Yahya with the same chain of transmitters up to" until its good condition becomes clear," but lie did not mention what follows (these words) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi, reported on the authority of Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) a hadith like that narrated before (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger' (ﷺ) as saying:Do not buy fruits (on the trees) until their good condition becomes clear (from eng-muslim.txt)
In the hadith transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba it was stated that Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) was asked what good condition implied. He said:When (the danger of) blight is no more (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (or forbade us) the sale of fruits until they are ripe in a good condition (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding the sale of fruit until its good condition is obvious (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not sell the fruits until their good condition becomes evident (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbidding the sale of fruits until their good condition becomes evident and the purchase of dates for dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Thabit (Allah be pleased with him) said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave a concession in case of the sale known as al-araya, there is an addition of the word an tuba'a in the hadith transmitted by Ibn Numair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not buy the fruit until their condition is clear, and do not buy the fresh dates. A hadith like this has been reported by Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Thabit (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) having given concession in case of 'ariyya for selling dry dates (with) fresh dates after measuring them out (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Thabit reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) give concession in case of 'ariyya transactions according to which the members of the household give dry dates according to a measure and then eat fresh dates (in exchange for it) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Nafi' with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Yahya b. Sa'id reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters but with this change:'Ariyya implies that date-palm trees should be donated to the people and then they sell it with a measure of dry dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Thabit (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) granting concession in case of 'ariyya transactions and that implies selling of (dry dates for fresh dates) according to a measure (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubaidullah reported this hadith with a slight change of words on the same authority (as quoted above) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi, reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters stating that Allah's Messengtr (ﷺ) granted concession in case of 'ariyya transactions (for exchange of the same commodity) with measure (from eng-muslim.txt)
Bushair b. Yasar reported on the authority of some of the Companion of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that he exempted the transactions, of 'ariyya (from the direct exchange of one kind) after measuring the dry dates (in exchange for fresh dates) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Sahl b. Abu Hathma (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Abu Hathma reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having forbidden Muzabana, i. e. exchange of fresh dates with dry dates. except in case of those to whom donations of some trees have been made. It is for them that concession has been given (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having given exemption of 'ariyya transactions measuring less than five wasqs or up to five wasqs (the narrator Dawud is in doubt whether it was five or less than five) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having forbidden Muzabana, and Muzabana implies the selling of fresh dates for dry dates by measuring them out and the selling of raisins by measure for grapes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah (b. Umar) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade Muzabana, i. e. buying of fresh dates (on) the trees for dry dates by measure, and the buying of grapes for raisins by measure and the selling of field of corn for corn by measure (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having forbidden Muzabana, and Muzabana is the selling of dry dates by measure for fresh dates and the selling of raisins by measure for grapes and selling of all Ports of fruits on the basis of calculation (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Ayyub (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Nafi with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone buys palm-trees after they have been fecundated the fruit belongs to the seller unless the buyer makes a proviso (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi reported on the authority of Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Whichever tree is bought with its roots, and if it is fecundatedits fruit would belong to one who has grafted it except when the provision is laid down by the buyer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Whosoever grafts the tree and then sells its roots, its fruit will belong to one who grafts it except when provision is laid down by the buyer (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Nafi, with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of al Zuhri (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported on the authority of his father as Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saying so (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the types of sales as described before (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding Muhaqala and Muzabana and Mu'awama and Mukhabara. (One of the narrators) 'said:Sale years ahead is Mu'awama, and making exceptional but he made an exemption of araya (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ). but he made no mention of transactions years (ahead) implying Mu'awama (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade leasing of land, and selling ahead for years and selling of fruits before they become ripe (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having forbidden the renting of land (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who has land should cultivate it himself, but if he does not cultivate it himself, then he should let his brother cultivate it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having forbidden taking of rent or share of land (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who has land should cultivate it, but if he does not find it possible to cultivate it, or finds himself helpless to do so, he should lend it to his Muslim brother, but he should not accept rent from him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sulaiman b. Musa asked Ata':Did Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:" He who has land should cultivate it himself, or let his brother cultivate it, and should not give on rent"? He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having forbidden Mukhabara (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah he pleased with him) reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: He who has (surplus) land should donate it (to others), or lend it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight change of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding the selling (renting of) uncultivated land for two years or three (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbidding selling of (produce) in advance for two years, and in the narmtion of Ibu Abd Shaiba (the words are):" Selling of the fruits (on the tree) in advance for two years (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who has land should cultivate it or lend it to his brother, but if he refuses, he should retain his land (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding Muzabana, and Huqul. Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) said: Muzabana means the selling of fruits for dry dates and Huqul is the renting of land (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding Muhaqala and Muzabana (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having forbidden Mazabana and Muhaqala. Muzibana means the buying of fruits on the trees and Muhaqala is the renting of land (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Amr reported:I heard Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) say: We did not see any harm in renting of the land, but as the first year was over Rafi' alleged Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having forbidden that (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Amr b. Dinar with the same chain of transmitters but (in) the hadith transmitted on the authority of 'Uyainah (the words are):" We abandoned it (renting) on account of that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported:Rafi forbade us from benefitting from our land (in the form of rent) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ayyub and he made an addition in the hadith narrated by Ibn Ulayya in which he said:Ibn Umar abandoned it afterwards and he did not rent it (the land) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi reported:I went to Rafi b. Khadij in the company of Ibn 'Umar (All be pleased with them) until he (Ibn 'Umar) came to him at Balat (a place near Prophet's Mosque at Medina) and he (Rafi b. Khadij) informed him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had forbidden the renting of land (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi, reported from Ibn Umar (Allah be pleated with them) that he came to Rafi and he narrated this hadith from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rafi b. Khadij (Allah be pleased with him) reported:We used to give land on rent, and we rented it on one-third or one-fourth share. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another chain narrated the same as the above hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Rafi' b. Khadij with the same chain of transmitters, but in it no mention is made of some of his uncles (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Rafi from the Prophet (ﷺ) about this, but he did not make mention of his uncle Zuhair (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yahya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. al-Sa'ib reported:We visited 'Abdullah b. Ma'qil and asked him about sharing of crops, whereupon he said: Thabit alleged that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Muzara'a and commanded leasing it out on rent (for money) and said: There is no harm in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who has land, it is better for him that he should let it out to his brother (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) contracted with the people of Khaibar the (trees) on the condition that he would have half the produce in fruits and harvest (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying: Never does a Muslim plant, or cultivate, but has reward for him for what the beasts eat, or the birds eat or anything else eats out of that (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted on the authority of Abu Muawiya (but With a slight change of words) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying Never does a Muslim plant trees or cultivate land and birds or a man or a beast eat out of them but that is a charity on his behalf (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) visited the date-palms of Umm Mubashshir (Allah be pleased with her), a lady from the Ansar, and said:Who planted this palm-a Muslim or an unbelievers The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Juraij with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:If Allah does not fructify them, then what is permissible for one of you to take the wealth of his brother? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) commanded to make deductions in the payment of that stricken with a Calamity (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Bukair b. al-Ashajj with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith is narrated through another chain with a slight variation of words at the begining and the rest is of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who found his property intact with a person (who bought it but who later on) became insolvent (or a person who became insolvent), he (the seller) is entitled to get it more than anyone else (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yahya b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (but with a slight variation of words and these are)" Whenever a man becomes poor (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saying about a person who becomes insolvent and (the thing bought by him) is found intact with him, that belongs to one who sold it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:When a man becomes insolvent (and the other) man (the seller) finds his commodity intact with him, he is more entitled to get it (than anyone else) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (but with a change of these words):" He is more entitled to get it than any other creditor (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When a inan becomes insolvent, and the other person (seller) finds his goods intact with him, he is more entitled to get them than anyone else (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ayyob with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Delay (in the payment of debt) on the part of a rich man is injustice, and when one of you is retired to a rich man, he should follow him (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (, Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the sale of excess water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the hiring of a Camel to cover a she-Camel and from selling water and land to be tilled. So from all this the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Excess water must not be withheld so that the growth of herbage may be hindered (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not withhold excess of water, so that you may prevent the growth of herbage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The excess of water should not be sold in order to enable the sate of herbage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Aba Mas'ud al-Ansari (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the charging of price of the dog, and earnings of a prostitute and sweets offered to a kahin (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is reported on the authority of Abu Mas'ud through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rafi b. Khadij (Allah be pleased with him) reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: The worst earning is the earning of a prostitute, the price of a dog and the earning of a cupper (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rafi b. Khadij reported Allah'& Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The price of a dog is evil, the earning of a prostitute is evil and the earning of a cupper is evil (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Rafi' b. Khadij through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Rafi' b. Khadij through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Zubair said:I asked Jabir about the price of a dog and a cat; he said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) disapproved of that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) giving command for killing dogs (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered to kill dogs, and he sent (men) to the corners of Medina that they should be killed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Mughaffal reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ordered the killing of dogs and then said: what is the trouble with them (the people of Medina)? How dogs are nuisance to them (the citizens of Medina)? He then permitted keehing of dogs for hunting and (the protection of) herds (from eng-muslim.txt)
In the hadith transmitted on the authority of Yahya, he (the Holy Prophet) permitted the keeping of dogs for (the protection of) herds, for hunting and (the protection of) cultivated land (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who keeps a dog other than that meant for watching the herd or for hunting loses every day out of his deeds equal to two qirat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:He who kept a dog other than one meant for hunting or for watching the herd, lost two qirat of his reward every day (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying He who kept a dog other than one meant for hunting or for watching the herd lost out of his deeds (equal to) two qirat every day (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim b. Abdullah reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Whosover amongst the owners of the house keeps a dog other than one meant for watching the herd or for hunting loses two qirat of his deeds every day (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) narrated Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who kept a dog ther than one meant for watching the fields or herds or hunting would lose one qirat every day out of his reward (with God) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who kept a dog would lose out of his deeds equal to one qirat every day. except (one kept) for watching the field or herd (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Yahya b. Abu Kathir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who kept a dog, but not meant for hunting or watching the herd, would lose one qirat of reward every day (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sufyan b. Abu Zuhair al-Shana'i (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got himself cupped and he paid the clipper his charges and he put medicine in his nostrils (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:The slave of Banu Bayada cupped Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and he gave him his wages, and talked to his master and he reduced the charges, and if this earning was unlawful Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) would not have given it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. Wa'ala narrated this on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Abbas (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:When the concluding verses of Sura Baqara were revealed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out and read them out to the people and then forbade them to trade in wine (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:When the concluding verses of Sura Baqara pertaining to Riba were revealed, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out to the mosque and he forbade the trade in wine (from eng-muslim.txt)
Yazid b. Abu Habib reported:'Ata' reported to me that he heard Jabir (b. 'Abdullah) saying it that he had heard that from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the Year of Victory (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Amr b. Dinar with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:May Allah destroy the Jews for Allah forbade the use of fats for them, but they sold them and made use of their price (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:May Allah destroy the Jews for Allah forbade the use of fat for them, but they sold it and made use of its price (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id al-Khudri through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not sell gold for gold and silver for silver weight for weight or of the same quality (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uthman b. 'Affan reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not sell a dinar for two dinars and one dirham for two dirhams (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith is likewise narrated through another chain of transmission on the authority of Abi Qilabah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id al-Khudri (Allah be pleased with him) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Fudail b. Ghazwan with the same chain of transmitters, but he made no mention of (payment being) made on the spot (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Let dinar be exchanged for dinar, with no addition on either side and dirham be exchanged for dirham with no addition on either side (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Musa b. Abu Tamim with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rabman b. Abu Bakra said:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited us. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is narrated on the authority of Sa'id b. Yazid with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubaidullah b. Abu Yazid heard Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) as saying:Usama b. Zaid reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: There can be an element of interest in credit (when the payment is not equal) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas; (Allah be pleased with them) reported on the authority of Usama b. Zaid Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as having said this:There is no element of interest when the money or commodity is exchanged hand to hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah (b. Mas'ud) (Allah be pleased with him) said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cursed the one who accepted interest and the one who paid it I asked about the one who recorded it, and two witnesses to it. He (the narrator) said:We narrate what we have heard (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cursed the accepter of interest and its payer, and one who records it, and the two witnesses, and he said:They are all equal (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zakariya with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
AI-Nu'man b. Bashir reported it from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ). The hadith narrated by Zakariya is, however, more complete and lengthy than the other ones (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (Allah be pleased with him) reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said to him:I have taken your camelfor four dinars, and you may ride upon it to Medina (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Rafi', the freed slave of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), said:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took as a loan (the rest of the hadith is the same), but with this variation that he (the Holy Prophet) said: Good amongst the servants of Allah is he who is best in paying off the debt (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) took a camel on loan, and then returned him (the lender) the camel of a more mature age and said: Good among you are those who are good in clearing off the debt (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported:There came a person demanding a camel from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He (the Holy Prophet) said: Give him (the camel) of that age or of more mature age, and said: Best among you is one who is best in clearing off the debt (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) bought some grain from a Jew on credit and gave him a coat-of- mail of his as a pledge (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) bought from a Jew grain (as loan) and pledged him his iron coat-of-mail (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (Allah be pleased with her) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) bought from a Jew grain for a specified time; and gave him iron coat-of-mail of his as a pledge (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha (Allah be pleased with her), through another chain ol transmitters, but no mention was made of (its being made) of iron (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported that when Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) came to Medina, they were paying one and two years in advance for fruits, so he said:Those who pay in advance for anything must do so for a specified weight and for a definite time (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abu Najih has narrated a hadith like this with the same chain of transmitters, but he has not mentioned:" for a definite period (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Abu Najih through another chain of transmitters mentioning in it" for a specified period (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ma`mar (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who hoards is a sinner. It was said to Sa`id (b. al-Musayyib): You also hoard. Sa`id said: Ma`mar who narrated this hadith also hoarded (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ma'mar b. Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No one hoards but the sinner (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Sulaiman b. Bilal from Yahya (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) said he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Swearing produces a ready sale for a commodity, but blots out the blessing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada al-Ansari (Allah be pleased with him) reported he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say:Beware of swearing; it produces a ready sale for a commodity, but blots out the blessing (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transrmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Zaid b. 'Amr b. Nufail (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who wrongly took a span of land, Allah shall make him carry around his neck seven earths (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Zaid reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) say: He who took a span of earth wrongly would be made to wear around his neck seven earths on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) as saying:One should not take a span of land without having legitimate right to it, otherwise Allah would make him wear (around his neck) seven earths on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Salama with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Haraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:When you disagree about a path, its breadth should be made seven cubits (from eng-muslim.txt)
Usama b. Zaid reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A Muslim is not entitled to inherit from a non-Muslim, and a non-Muslim is not entitled to inherit from a Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Give the shares to those who are entitled to them, and what remains over goes to the nearest male heir (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Give the shares to those who are entitled to them, and what is left from those wno are entitled to it goes to the nearest male heir (from eng-muslim.txt)
Tawus reported on the authority of Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) narrating that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Distribute the property amongst Ahl al-Fara'id, according to the Book of Allah, and what is left out of them goes to the nearest male heir (from eng-muslim.txt)
There is another chain of Tawus reporting like the reports that were mentioned before the previous hadith chain through Tawus (the chains of Wuhaib and Rowh bin Qasim) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' (Allah be pleased with him) reported that the last verse revealed in the Holy Qur'an is:" They ask thee for a religious verdict; say: Allah gives you a religious verdict about Kalala (the person who has neither parents nor children)" (iv) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ishaq said that he heard al-Bara' b. 'Azib (Allah be pleased with him say:The last verse revealed (in the Holy Quran) is that pertaining to Kalala, and the last sura revealed is Sura al-Bara'at (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ishaq said that he heard al-Bara' b. 'Azib (Allah be pleased with him) say:The last complete sura revealed (in the Holy Qur'an) is Sura Tauba (i e. al-Bara'at, ix.), and the last verse revealed is that pertaining to Kalala (from eng-muslim.txt)
Aba Ishaq reported this hadith on the authority of al-Bara' (Allah be pleased with him) with a slight variation of words, viz. the last sura that was revealed complete (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' (Allah be pleased with him) reported that the last verse revealed was:" They ask of thee religious verdict.." (iv) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of al-Zuhri through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who leaves property, that is for the inheritors; and he who leaves behind destitute children, then it is my responsibility (to look after them) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Malik b. Anas with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:" Don't buy that even if he gives you for one dirham (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zaid b. Aslam with the same chain of transmitters but with this (change) that the hadith transmitted on the authority of Malik and Rauh (he was the son of Qisirn) is more complete and lengthy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said this:He who gets back his charity is like a dog which vomits, and then returns to that and eats it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is also reported through another chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is reported on the authority of Muhammad son of Fatima (Allah be pleased with her) daughter of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say: The similitude of one who gives a charity and then gets it back is like that of a dog which vomits and then eats its vomit (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:One who gets back the gift is like one who eats vomit (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Tawus reported on the authority of his father who reported from Ibn Abas (Allah be pleased with them) who reported from Allah's Messenger 'may peace be upon him) that he said:One who gets back his gift is like a dog which vomits and then swallows that vomit (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Bashir reported:My father brought me to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said: I have donated this slave to my son. whereupon he said: Have you made (such) donation to every one or your sons? He said: No. Thereupon he (the-Holy Prophet) said: Then take him back (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with different chains of transmitters and a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Bashir (Allah be pleased with them) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to his father:Call me not as witness to an injustice (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir (b. 'Abdullah) (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Life grant is for one upon whom it is bestowed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported a hadith like this through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported this hadith directly from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sulaiman b. Yasir reported that Jabir gave this verdict. The inheritor has a right (to inherit) the life grant according to the statement of Jabir (b. 'Abdullah) (Allah be pleased with him) which he narrated from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Life grant is permissible (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Life grant is the heritage of one upon whom it is conferred (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Life grant is permissible (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar (Allah be pleased with them) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is the duty of a Muslim who has something which is to be given as a bequest not to have it for two nights without having his will written down regarding it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters. but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this have been narrated on the authority of Nafi', who based his narrations of the words of Ibn 'Umar but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Simak with the same chain of transmitters. But he did not mention:" It was then that one-third became permissible (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Sa'd reported his father as saying:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) visited me during my illness. I said: I am willing away the whole of my property. He said: No. I said: Then half? He said: No. I said: Should I will away one-third? He said: Yes, and even one-third is enough (from eng-muslim.txt)
Humaid b. Abd al-Rahmin al-Himayri reported on the authority of the three of the sons of Sa'd:They said: Sa'd fell ill in Mecca. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited him to inquire after his health. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Humaid b. Abd al-Rahman reported this hadith on the authority of three of Sa'd's sons:Sa'd fell ill in Mecca and Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) visited him. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported that a person said to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ):My father died and left behind property without making any will regarding it. Would he be relieved of the burden of his sins if I give sadaqa on his behalf? He (the Holy Prophet) said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham b. 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira (Allah be pleased with him) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When a man dies, his acts come to an end, but three, recurring charity, or knowledge (by which people) benefit, or a pious son, who prays for him (for the deceased) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Aun with the same chain of transmitters up to the words:" Or he may feed the friend withoiut hoarding from it" and he made no mention of what follows (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) left neither dinar nor dirham (wealth in the form of cash), nor goats (and sheep), nor camels. And he made no will about anything (in regard to his material possessions, as he had none) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that Sa'd b. Ubida asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) for a decision about a vow taken by his mother who had died before fulfilling it. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Fulfil it on her behalf (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with a different chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar reported:Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) singled out one day forbidding us to take vows and said: It would not avert anything; it is by which something is extracted from the miserly person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The vow neither hastens anything nor defers anything, but is the means whereby (something) is extracted from the miserly person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade (people) taking vows, and said:It does not (necessarily) bring good (in the form of substantial, and tangible results), but it is the meant whereby something is extracted from the miserly persons (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mansur with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Heraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not take vows, for a vow has no effect against Fate; it is only from the miserly that something is extracted (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding taking of vows, and said:It does not avert Fate, but is the means by which something is extracted from the miser (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Amr b. Abu 'Amr (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Ayyub with the same chain of transmitters and a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Amr b. Abu 'Amr with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. Amir reported:My sister took a vow that she would walk bare foot to the house of Allah (Ka'ba). She asked me to inquire from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about it. I sought his decision and he said: She should walk on foot and ride also (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Uqba b. Amir Juhani. but in this no mention has been made of" barefoot (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Uqba b. Amir Juhani. but in this no mention has been made of" barefoot (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba. b. Amir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The expiation of the (breach of) a vow is the same as that of the (breach of an oath) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) heard 'Umar while he was taking oath by his father. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who has to take an oath, he must not take oath but by Allah. The Quraish used to take oath by their fathers. So he (the Holy Prophet) said: Do not take oath by your fathers (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who takes an oath in the course of which he says: By Lat (and al-'Uzza), he should say: There is no god but Allah; and that if anyone says to his friend:" Come and I will gamble with you," he should pay sadaqa (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. Samura reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not swear by idols, nor by your fathers (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Musa al-Ash'ari with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zahdam al-Jarmi reported:We were in the company of Abu Musa. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zahdam al-Jarmi reported:I visited Abu Musa and lie was eating fowl's meat. The rest of the hadith is the same with this addition that he (the Holy Prophet) said: By Allah, I did not forget it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported:We walked on foot and came to Allah's Apostle (may peace he upon him) asking him to provide us with mounts. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who took an oath and then found another thing better than (this) should expiate for the oath (broken) by him and do (the better thing) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who took an oath and (later on) found another thing better than that, he should do that which is better, and expiate for the vow (broken by him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Suhail with the same chain of transmitters (with these words):" He should expiate for (breaking) the vow and do that which is better (from eng-muslim.txt)
Adi b. Hatim reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who took an oath, but he found something else better than that, should do that which is better and break his oath (from eng-muslim.txt)
Adi reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When anyone amongst you takes an oath, but he finds (something) better than that he should expiate (the breaking of the oath), and do that which is better (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Adi b. Hatim through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Tamim b. Tarafa reported:I heard 'Adi b. Hatim say that a person asked that and then narrated (the hadith) like one (mentioned above), but he made this addition:" Here are four hundred (dirhams) for you out of my gift (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abd al-Rahman b. Samura through another chain of transmitters but there is no mention of the word" authority (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Haraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Your oath should be about something regarding which your companion will believe you. 'Amr said: By which your companion will believe you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:An oath is to be interpreted according to the intention of the one who takes it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported this hadith from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Zinad with the same chain of transmitters with a variation of (these words):" Every one of them giving birth to a child, who would have fought in the cause of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Umar (b. Khattab) said:Messenger of Allah, I had taken a vow during the days of Ignorance (Jahiliyya) that I would observe I'tikaf for a night in the Sacred Mosque. He (the Holy Prophet) said: Fulfil your vow (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is transmitted on the authority of Ibn Umar with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
lbn 'Umar reported:When Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) came back from the Battle of Hunain, Umar asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the vow he had taken during the days of Ignorance that he would observe I'tikaf for a day. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Umar through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hilal b. Yasaf reported:We used to sell cloth in the house of Suwaid b. Muqarrin, the brother of Nu'man b. Muqarrin. There came out a slave-girl, and she said something to a person amongst us, and he slapped her. Suwaid was enraged-the rest of the hadlth is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Wahb b. Jarir reported:Shu'ba informed that Muhammad b. Munkadir said to me: What is your name? The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authorityo A'mash but with this variation of words:" There fell from my hand the whip on account of his (the Prophet's) awe (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters, but made no mention of (these words) of his:I seek refuge with Allah, I seek refuge with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Abu'l-Qasim (one of the names of Allah's Messenger [may peace be upon him]) said:He who accused his slave of adultery, punishment would be imposed upon him on the Day of Resurrection, except in case the accusation was as he had said (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Ghazwan (and the words are):" I heard Abu'l-Qasim (ﷺ) as the Prophet of repentance (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is essential to feed the slave, clothe him (properly) and not burden him with work which is beyond his power (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When a slave looks to the welfare of his master and worships Allah well, he has two rewards for him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Tahir but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When a slave fulfils obligation of Allah and obligation of his master, he has two rewards for him. I narrated this to Ka'b, and Ka'b said: (Such a slave) has no accountability, nor has a poor believer (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been reported through another chain of transmitters on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is good for a slave that he worships Allah well, and serves his master (well). It is good for him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who gives up his share in a slave, and has enough money to pay the full price of the slave, then full emancipation devolves upon him; but if he has not the money, then he emancipated what he emancipated (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who gives up his share in a slave, and he has money enough to meet the full price, a fair price for him should be fixed; otherwise be has emancipated him to the extent that he has emancipated (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who gives up his share in a slave, the remaining (share) will be paid out of his riches if his riches are enough to meet the price of the slave (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:In case the slave is owned by two persons, and one of them emancipates him, he will guarantee (his full freedom) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):" He who emancipates a portion in a slave, he should (secure full) freedom for him from his property (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (and the words are):" He will be required to work (in order to secure freedom) for that por- tion in which he has not been emancipated, without overburdening him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (and the words are):" A person from among the Ansar willed away the freedom of six slaves of his at the time of his death (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Imran b. Husain through another chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir is reported to have said:A person amongst the Ansar who had no other property declared a slave free after his death. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sold him, and Ibn al-Nahham bought him and he was a Coptic slave (who) died in the first year of the Caliphate of Ibn Zubair (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Jabir through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Abu Hathma has narrated this hadith through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words, but no mention has been made of the hitting by the she-camel (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sahl b. Abu Hathma through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sulaiman b. Yasar, the freed slave of Maimuna, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), narrated from one of the Ansari Companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) retained (the practice) of Qasama as it was in the pre-Islamic days (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) decided (according to Qasama) between the persons of Ansar (and yours) about a slain (Muslim) for which they made claim against the Jews (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Salama b. 'Abd al-Rahman and Sulaiman b. Yasar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:There came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eight persons from the tribe of 'Ukl, but with this addition that he did not cauterise (the wounds which hid been inflicted upon them while punishing them) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pierced their eyes because they had pierced the eyes of the shepherds (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters and in the hadith narrated on the authority of Ibn Idris (the words are):" He (commanded) to crush his head between two stones (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that a Jew killed a girl of the Ansar for her ornaments and then threw her in a well and smashed her head with a stone. He was caught and brought to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he commanded that he should be stoned to death. So he was stoned until he died (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ayyub with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ya'la (from eng-muslim.txt)
Imran b. Husain reported that a person bit the arm of another person; he pulled it out and his foretooth fell down. This matter was taken to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), and he turned it down saying:Did you want to eat his flesh? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Safwan b. Ya'la reported that a person bit the arm of the servant of Ya'la b. Munya. He pulled it and his foretooth fell. The matter was referred to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and he turned it down and said:Did you intend to bite his hand, as the camel bites? (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Juraij with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of narrators but with a slight variation of words, i. e. he did not say:By Him besides Whom there is no god (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah (b. Mas'ud) reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said: No person who is killed unjustly, but the share of (this offence of his also) falls upon the first son of Adam, for he was the first to introduce killing (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jarir and 'Isa b. Yunus with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. (Mas'ud) reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The first (thing) that will be decided among people on the Day of Judgment will pertain to bloodshed (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakra reported that when it was the day of (Dhu'l-Hijja) Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) mounted the camel and addressed and a person had been holding its nosestring. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that among two women of the tribe of Hudhail one flung a stone upon the other causing an abortion to her so Allah's Apostle (may peace he upon him) gave judgment that a male or a female slave of best quality be given as compensation (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that two women fought-the rest of the hadith is the same but herein no mention has been made of:He made her son and those who were with them her heirs. Someone said: Why should we pay blood-wit? And he did not name Hamal b. Malik (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mansur with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mansur transmitted this hadith with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cut off the hand of a thief for a quarter of a dinar rid upwards (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The hand of a thief should not be cut off but for a quarter of a dinar and upwards (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: The hand (of a thief) should not be cut off but for a quarter of a dinar and what is above that (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that she heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The hand of the thief may not be cut off but for a quarter of a dinar and upwards (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Yazid b. 'Abdullah b. al-Had with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the hand of the thief was not cut off for less than the price of a shield, iron coat or armour and both of them are valuable (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham through another chain of transmitters, and in the hadith narrated by 'Abd al-Rahim and Abu Usama (the words are):" That (the shield) was valuable those days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (may peace upon him) cut off the hand of a thief (in case of the theft) of a shield the price of which was three dirhams (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through some other chains of transmitters but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Let there be the curse of Allah upon the thief who steals an egg and his hand is cut off, and steals a rope and his hand is cut off (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith is likewise narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters except with this variation that the unmarried is to be lashed and exiled, and the married one is to be lashed and stoned. There is neither any mention of one year nor that of one hundred (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. Samura through another chain of transmitters with the difference that along with the mentioning (of the fact) that he (the Holy Prophet) turned him away twice, or thrice (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Dawud with the same chain of transmitters but with this variation that in the hadith narrated by Sufyan (the words are):" He made a confession of having committed adultery, thrice (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Yahya b. Abu Kathir (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stoned to death the Jews, both male and female, who had committed adultery. The Jews brought them to Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him). The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that the Jews brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a man and a woman who had committed adultery. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash up to the words:" Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) pronounced judgment and he was stoned (to death)" And he mentioned nothing subsequent to that pertaining to the revelation of verses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) stoned (to death) a person from Banu Aslam, and a Jew and his wife (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Juraij with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ishaq Shaibani said:I asked 'Abdullah b. Abu Aufi if Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) awarded (the punishment) of stoning (to death). He said: Yes. I said: After Sura al-Nur was revealed or before that? He said: I do not know (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith his been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira and Zaid b. Khalid al-Jubani, but in this no merition is made of the words of Ibn Shihab that dafir means rope (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of as-Suddi with the same chain of trznsmitters, but he did not mention:" Those who are married and those who are not married." There is also an addition in it:" I spare her until she is all right (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) used to strike forty times with shoes and palm branches (in case of drinking of) wine. The rest of the hadith is the same and there is no mention of pastures and towns (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported:If I impose Hadd on anyone, and he (in course of punish ment) dies, I would not mind except in case of a drunkard. If he dies. I would pay indemnity for him because the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) has laid down no rule for it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Sufyan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Barda Ansari reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None should be given more than ten lashes, but in case of any Hadd out of the Huded of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters with this addition:" He recited to us the verse pertaining to women, viz, that they will not associate anything with Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No requital is payable for a wound caused by an animal, for (falling into) a well and a mine, and one-fifth (is the share of the government) in the buried treasure (treasure-trove) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The wound caused (by falling) in the well, in the mine, and caused bv the animal has no requital for it; and there is one-fifth (for the government) in the buried treasure (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:If the people were given according to their claims, they would claim the lives of persons and their properties, but the oath must be taken by the defendant (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pronounced judgment on the basis of oath by the defendant (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pronounced judgment on the basis of an oath and a witness (by the plaintiff) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ma'mar with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chair of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Suhail with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been trransmitted on the authority of Mansur with a slight vairiation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Usama b. al-Had al-Laithi (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abd al-Rahman b. Abu Bakra through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who innovates things in our affairs for which there is no valid (reason) (commits sin) and these are to be rejected (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Khalid al-Juhani reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Should I not tell you of the best witnesses? He is the one who produces his evidence before he is asked for it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu az-Zinad with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. 'Uthman al-Taimi reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade taking into custody the stray thing of the pilgrims (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Khalid al-Juhani reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as sayin.:He who found a stray article is himself led astray if he does not advertise it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Aun and the name of Juwairiya bint al-Harith was mentioned beyond any doubt (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sulaiman b. Buraida repotted on the authority of his father that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent an Amir with a detachment he called him and advised him. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Buraida but for the last two words (from eng-muslim.txt)
The Messenger of Allah (may peace he upon him) has been reported by Anas b. Malik to have said:Show leniency; do not be hard; give solace and do not create aversion (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar through some other Chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by another chain of transmitters on the authority of the same narrator, with the wording:Allah will set up a flag for every person guilty of breach of faith on the Day of Judgment, and it will be announced: Look, this is the perfidy of so and so (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying:There will be a flag for every perfidious person on the Day of Judgment (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) as saying:There will be a flag for every perfidious person on the Day of Judgment, and it would be said: Here is the perfidy of so and so (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:There will be for every perfidious person on the Day of Judgment a flag by which he will be recognised. It will be announced: Here is the breach of faith of so and so (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said this:There would be a flag for every perfidious person on the Day of Judgment by which he will be recognised (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:On the Day of Judgment there will be a flag fixed behind the buttocks of every person guilty of the breach of faith (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:War is a stratagem (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has also been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Do not desire an encounter with the enemy; but when you encounter them, be firm (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Abu Aufa with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Uyaina through another chain of transmitters (who added the words)" the Disperser of clouds" in his narration (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said on the day of the Battle of Uhud:O Allah, if Thou wilt (defeat Muslims), there will be none on the earth to worship Thee (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah that a woman was found killed in one of the battles fought by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He disapproved of the killing of women and children (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated by Ibn 'Umar that a woman was found killed in one of these battles; so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the killing of women and children (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Sa'b b. Jaththama that the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ), when asked about the women and children of the polytheists being killed during the night raid, said:They are from them (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is narrated by Sa'b b. Jaththama that he said (to the Holy Prophet):Messenger of Allah, we kill the children of the polytheists during the night raids. He said: They are from them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'b b. Jaththama has narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) asked:What about the children of polytheists killed by the cavalry during the night raid? He said: They are from them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) burnt the date-palms of Banu Nadir (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) sent an expedition to Najd and I was among the troops. They got a large number of camels as a booty. Eleven or twelve camels fell to the lot of every fighter and each of them also got one extra camel (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent an expedition to Najd and Ibn Umar was also among the troops, and their share (of the spoils) came to twelve camels and they were given one camel over and above that. and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not make any change in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Aun said:I wrote to Nafi' asking him about Nafl (spoils of war) and be wrote to me that Ibn 'Umar was among that expedition. (The rest of the hadith is the same) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith has been narrated by Salim who learnt it from his father and said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave us an extra (camel) besides our share of Khums; (and in this extra share) I got a Sharif (and a Sharif is a big old camel) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Shihab reported:It reached me through Ibn Umar that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave a share of spoils to the troop. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Muammad al-Ansari, who was the close companion of Abu Qatada. narrated the hadith (which follows) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Muhammad, the freed slave of Abu Qatada reported on the authority of Abu Qatda and narrated the hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:My heirs cannot share even a dinar (from my legacy) ; what I leave behind after paving maintenance allowance to my wives and remuneration to my manager is (to go in) charity (from eng-muslim.txt)
A similar hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Zinad through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It his been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:" We do not have any heirs; what we leave behind is a charitable endowment (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) allowed two shares from the spoils to the horseman and one share to the footman (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated on the authority of Ubaidullah by a different chain of transmitters who do not mention the words:" from the booty (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated by a different chain of transmitters with a slight difference in the wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A similar hadith has been transmitted by a different chain of narrators, but the hadith narrated by Ibn Juraij is more detailed and complete (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated by 'Umar b. al-Khattib that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say:I will expel the Jews and Christians from the Arabian Peninsula and will not leave any but Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zubair with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Through the same chain of transmitters Shu'ba has narrated the same tradition in which he says that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said (to Sa'd):You have adjudged according to the command of God. And once he said: you have adjudged by the decision of a king (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Hisham (who learnt it from his father) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said (to Sa'd):You have adjudged their case with the judgment of God. the Exalted and Glorified (from eng-muslim.txt)
The tradition has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik (the same narrator) through a different chain of transmitters, but this version does not mention:" And he was not the Negus for whom the Prophet (ﷺ) had said the funeral prayers (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of the same narrator through another chain of transmitters with the same difference in the wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abbas reported:I was with Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) on the Day of Hunain. The rest of the hadith is the same but with this variation that the hadith transmitted by Yonus and Ma'mar is more detailed and complete (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Bara' with another chain of transmitters, but this hadith is short as compared with other ahadith which are more detailed (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated by Ibn Abu Najah through a different chain of transmitters up to the word:Zahaqa, (This version) does not contain the second verse and substitutes Sanam for Nusub (both the words mean" idol" or" image" that is worshipped) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abdullah b. Muti' who heard from his father and said:I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say on the day of the Conquest of Mecca: No Quraishite will be killed hound hand and foot from this day until the Day of judgment (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated through a different chain of transmitters on the authority of A'mash. This version contains the words:Ila amrin yofzi'una instead of Ila amrin na'rifuhu (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated on the authority of Sahl b. Sa'd through a different chain of transmitters with a slight difference in the wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A version of the tradition with a slightly different wording has been narrated by another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Jundub b. Sufyan who said:A finger of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was wounded in one of the encounters He said: Thou art just a little finger which has bled, and what thou hast experienced is in the cause of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Aswad b. Qais who said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in a cave (or raid) when his finger was hurt (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Aswad b. Qais with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A similar tradition has been narrated through a different chain of transmitters by Ibn Shihab with the addition of the words:" Before Abdullah (b. Ubayy) became a Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
A similar tradition has been transmitted by a different chain of narrators, on the same authority with a slight difference In the wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Anas b. Malik with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Ishaq who said:I heard from Bara' a similar tradition except that he said:" These people (the Meccans) rebelled against us (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:O God, there is no life, but the life of the Hereafter, So forgive Thou the Ansar and the Muhajirs (from eng-muslim.txt)
According to another version of the tradition, reported on the authority of Anas b. Malik, the Messenger of Allah (may peace he upon him) is reported to have said:O God, there is no life but the life of the Hereafter, So grant honour to the Ansar and the Muhajirs (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik who said that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) allowed Umm Sulaim and some other women of the Ansar to accompany him when he went to war; they would give water (to the soldiers) and would treat the wounded (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yazid b. Hurmuz through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Yazid b. Hurmuz. but not complete (as we find in the above mentioned ahadith) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Umm 'Atiyya, the Ansarite, who said:I took part with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in seven battles. I would stay behind in the camp of men, cook their food, treat the wounded and nurse the sick (from eng-muslim.txt)
A similar tradition has been narrated on the authority of Hisham b. Hassan through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Zaid b. Arqam that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) fought nineteen battles and after the Migration performed only one Pilgrimage called Hajjat-ul-Wada (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Buraida (who heard the tradition from his father) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) conducted nineteen military campaigns and he (actually) fought in eight of them (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated by Buraida who heard it from his father that he joined the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in sixteen military campaigns (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Salama who said:I joined seven military expeditions led by the Messenger of Allah himself (ﷺ), and nine expeditions which he sent out once under Abu Bakr and once under Usama b. Zaid (from eng-muslim.txt)
The (foregoing) tradition has also been narrated on the authority of Hatim through the same chain of transmitters with the difference that according to this version both these types of expeditions were seven in number (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:People are the followers of Quraish in good as well as evil (i. e. in the customs of Islamic as well as pre-Islamic times) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The Caliphate will remain among the Quraish even if only two persons are left (on the earth) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. Samura through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Samura al-'Adawi reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say, and he then narrated (the above-mentioned hadith) (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been reported on the authority of Abu Dharr that the Messenger of of Allah (ﷺ) said:Abu Dharr, I find that thou art weak and I like for thee what I like for myself. Do not rule over (even) two persons and do not manage the property of an orphan (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abd al-Rahman b. Shumasa with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated through more; than one chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated through more; than one chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith having the same meaning has been transmitted on the authority of 'Abdullah b. 'Umar (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu al-Aswad who said:My father related to me that Ma'qil b. Yasir fell ill. 'Ubaidullah b. Ziyad called on him to inquire after his health. Here follows the tradition as narrated by Hasan from Ma'qil (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above tradition has been narrated on the same authority through different chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira has narrated this hadith with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira has narrated this hadith similar to the above mentioned hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been hanoed down through a different chain of transmitters on the authority of Hisham with aslight variation in the wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Isma'il with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Adi b. 'Amira al-Kindi heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying (as) was narrated in the (above-mentioned) hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Whoso obeys me obeys God; and whose disobeys me disobeys God. Whoso obeys my commander obeys me, and whoso disobeys my commander disobeys me (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira by more than one chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammam b. Munabbih has transmitted this hadith on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
According to one version of the tradition, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Whoso obeys the commander. He did not say:" My commander (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Dharr who said:My friend (i. e. the Holy Prophet) advised me to listen (to the man in position of authority) and obey (him) even if he were a slave maimed (and disabled) (from eng-muslim.txt)
In another version of the tradition, we have the wording:" An Abyssinian slave maimed and disabled (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu 'Imran narrated this hadith with a slight change of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters, and he said:"An Abyssinian slave (from eng-muslim.txt)
In other versions of the above tradition, the wordings are" an Abyssinian slave." and" a maimed Abyssinian slave (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another version of the tradition does not qualify the slave with the epithets" maimed,"" an Abyssinian" but makes the addition:" I have heard the Prophet (ﷺ) (say this) at Mina or 'Arafat (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Ubaidullah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubada b. Walid with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been handed down through more than one chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been transmitted by a different chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of 'Abd Rabb al-Ka'ba as-Sa'idl who said:I saw a group of people near the Ka'ba.... Then he narrated the tradition as narrated by A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated on the same authority through a different chain of transmitters. Another version of the tradition narrated on the authority of Shu'ba does not include the words:" He took the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) aside (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated on the same authority through a different chain of transmitters. Another version of the tradition narrated on the authority of Shu'ba does not include the words:" He took the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) aside (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated by the same authority through another chain of transmitters with a slight difference in wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadlth has been narrated on the authority of Jarir with the same chain of transmitters with a slight variation in wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar that he visited Ibn Muti', and related from the Prophet (ﷺ) the tradition that has gone before (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been transmitted by a different chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
In another version of the tradition narrated on the same authority through a different chains of transmitters we have the words:" Kill him (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Aba Sa'id al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:When oath of allegiance has been taken for two caliphs, kill the one for whom the oath was taken later (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another version of the tradition narrated on the same authority attributes the same words to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) except that it replaces kariha with ankhara and vice versa (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another version omits a portion at the end of the tradition-a portion which begins with man radiya wa taba and ends with the last word of the tradition (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been narrated through addtional chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated (through a different chain of transmitters) on the authority of Jabir who said:While swearing fealty to the Prophet (ﷺ) we did not take the oath to death but that we would not run away (from the battlefield) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Jabir who said:If we had been a hundred thousand in number, it (the water) would have sufficed us, but actually we were fifteen hundred (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated (through a different chain of transmitters) on the authority of Salim b. al-Ja'd who said:I asked Jabir: How many were you on the Day of Hudaibiya? He said: One thousand and four hundred (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Abu Aufa who said:The Companions of the Tree (i e. those who swore fealty under the tree) were one thousand and three hundred, and the people of Aslam tribe were one-eighth of the Muhajirs (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been handed down through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yunus with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The tradition has been narrated on the authority of Sa'id b. Musayyib who learnt it from his father. The latter said:I had seen the tree. When I came to the spot afterwards, I could not recognise it (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Yazid b. Abu Ubaid (the freed slave of Salama b. al-Akwa') who said:1 asked Salama as to what effect he had sworn fealty to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the Day of Hudaibiya. He said: To the effect that we will die fighting (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above tradition has also been handed down through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another version of the tradition transmitted on the authority of Asim has the same wording but does not mention the name of Abu Ma'bad (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above tradition has been handed down through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about migration, whereupon he said:There is no migration after the Conquest (of Mecca), but Jihad and sincere intention. When you are asked to set out (for the cause of Islam), you should set out (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been handed down through a different chain of transmitter with the addition of the following words at the end:" Do you milk them on the day they arrive at the water? He replied: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abdullah b. 'Umar who said:We used to take oath to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that we would listen to and obey his orders. He would tell us (to say in the oath): As far as it lies in my power (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been handed down through a different chain Of transmitters with the following change in the wording:" I was fourteen years old and he thought me too young (to participate in the fight) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar who said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade that one should travel to the land of the enemy taking the Qur'an with him (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abdullah b. Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to forbid that one should travel to the land of the enemy taking the Qur'an (with him) lest it should fall into the hands of the enemy (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been narrated through several other chains with slight differences of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been handed down through several other chains of transmitters. One of the chaines has the addition of the following words from Abdullah b. 'Umar:" I came first in the race and my horse jumped into the mosque with me (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:There will be great benefit in the forelock of the horses until the Day of judgment (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been handed down through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above tradition has also been narrated on the authority of Yunus through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated on the authority of Urwat al-Bariqi who said that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:Great good is attached to the forelock of the horses until the Day of Judgment (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwat al-Bariqi reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said this:Good is tied to the forelock of the horses. It Was said to him: Messenger of Allah, why is it so? He (the Prophet said): For reward and booty until the Day of Judgment (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated with the same chain of transmitters with the difference that here instead of" Urwat al-Bariqi" there is" Urwa b. ja'd (from eng-muslim.txt)
A version of the tradition narrated on the authority of 'Urwat al-Bariqi does not mention (the words):" reward and booty (from eng-muslim.txt)
A version of the tradition transmitted on the authority of 'Urwa b. al-ja'd does not mention" reward and booty (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:There is a blessing in the forelocks of the war horses (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abn Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to dislike the Shikal horse (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated on the authority of Sufyan with the addition from Abd ar-Razzaq (one of the narrators) explaining the meaning of shikal as a bone whose right back foot and left front foot or left back foot and right front foot are white (from eng-muslim.txt)
The tradition has been handed down through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been melted through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:If it were not hard upon my Umma (to follow my example), I would not lag behind any expedition-as in the traditions gone before (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been handed down through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated on the authority of Nu'man b. Bashir through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Leaving (for Jihad) in the way of Allah in the morning or in the evening (will merit a reward) better than the world and all that is in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Sahl b. Sa'd as-Sa'idi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The journey undertaken by a person in the morning (for Jihad) in the way of Allah (will merit a reward) better than the world and all that is in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Sahl b. Sa'd as-Sa'idi that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:A journey undertaken in the morning or evening (fond Jihad) in the way of Allah (will merit a reward) better than the world and all that is in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Ayyub that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:A journey undertaken in the morning or evening (for Jihad) in the way of Allah is better than (anything) on which the sun rises or sets (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated on the authority of Abu Ayyub through a different chain of transmitters having the same wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another version of the tradition differently transmitted begins with the words:" A man came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he was sitting on the pulpit.... He said: What do you find if I strike with the sword?" (The rest of the tradition is the same as the previous one) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been reported on the authority of 'Amr b. al-'As that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:All the sins of a Shahid (martyr) are forgiven except debt (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been reported on the authority of Amr b. al-'As through a different chain of transmitters that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:Death in the way of Allah blots out everything except debt (from eng-muslim.txt)
A version of the tradition narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab has a little differently worded ending. i. e." A man in a mountain valley." but did not mention" next to him a man who (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Two more versions of the tradition narrated by 'Abdullah b. Badr and Abu Huraira, respectively, have been handed down through different chains of transmitters with negligible difference in the wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated on the authority of Abu Zinad (with the same chain of transmitters) (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira that the Messenger Allah (ﷺ) said:A disbeliever and a believer who killed him will never be gathered together in Hell (from eng-muslim.txt)
A similar tradition has been narrated on the authority of al-A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above tradition has been handed down through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sent a force to Banu Lihyan (who are from Banu Hudhail, and said:One man from every two and the reward (will be divided) between the two (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above tradition has also been narrated through two different chains of transmitters on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri and Yahya, respectively (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above tradition has also been narrated through two different chains of transmitters on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri and Yahya, respectively (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been narrated by the same authority through different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been handed down through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated through a different chain of transmitters on the authority of Sufyan who said that he heard 'Umar b. al-Khattab relate (this tradition) from the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was delivering a sermon from the pulpit (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (may peace he upon him) said:Who seeks martyrdom with sincerity shall get its reward, though he may not achieve it (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Jabir who said:We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) on an expedition. He said: There are some people in Medina. They are with you whenever you cover a distance or cross a valley. They have been detained by illness (from eng-muslim.txt)
In a version of the tradition narrated on the authority of A'mash, we have the words:" They will share with you the reward (for Jihad) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been handed down on the authority of Salman al-Khair through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A version of the tradition narrated on the authority of Suhail contains the additional words:" And one who is drowned is a martyr (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another version of the tradition narrated on the authority of Suhail thouch a different chain of transmitters contains the additional words:" A drowned person is a martyr (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Hafsa daughter of Sirin who said:Anas b. Malik asked me the cause of death of Yahya b. 'Abu 'Amra. I said: (He died) of plague. He said: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said that death by plague is martyrdom for a Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Asim through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Uqba b. Amir who said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: Lands shall be thrown open to you and Allah will suffice you (against your enemies), but none of you should give up playing with his arrows (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has also been narrated on the same authority through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Mughira who said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: A group of people from my Umma will continue to be triumphant over the people until the Command of Allah overtakes them while they are still triumphant (from eng-muslim.txt)
The same tradition has been narrated through another chain of transmitters on the same authority (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. Samura that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:This religion will continue to exist, and a group of people from the Muslims will continue to fight for its protection until the Hour is established (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. 'Abdullah who said:I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: A group of people from my Umma will continue to fight In defence of truth and remain triumphant until the Day of judgment (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated by Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:The people of the West will continue to triumphantly follow the truth until the Hour is established (from eng-muslim.txt)
On the authority of Abu Huraira that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:Travelling is a tortuous experience. It deprives a person of his sleep. his food and drink. When one of you has accomplished his purpose, he should hasten his return to his family (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not come (back) to his family by night. He would come to them in the morning or in the evening (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another version of the tradition narrated on the same authority worded slightly differently. It says:(He) would not enter (upon his household at night) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been handed down through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated (through a different chain of tranmitters) on the authority of Jabir who said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade that a man who had long absent should come to his family like (an unexpected) night visitor (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above tradition has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It has been narrated (through a different chain of tranmitten) on the authority of Jabir who said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade that a man should come to his family like (an unexpected) night visitor doubting their fidelity and spying into their lapses (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been reported through anothee chain. 'Abdurahman, one of the sub-narrators, said "I do not know if it in the hadith or not", meaning (the words) "doubting their fidelity and spying into their lapses (from eng-muslim.txt)
A version of the tradition narrated on the authority of Jabir (but through a different chain of transmitters) mentions the undesirability of coining to one's house like a night visitor, but does not contain the words:" Doubting their fidelity or spying into their lapses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Adi b. Hatim reported:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about Mi'rad (i. e. hunting with the help of arrow having a stub end, and he stated the same (as we find in the previous hadith) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Adi b. Hatim with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zakariya b. Abu Za'ida with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated oif the authority of 'Adi b. Hatim through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Haiwa with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tha'laba reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said this:If you shoot with your arrow and (the game) goes out of your sight and you find it (later on), then eat that if it has not gone rotten (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tha'laba reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying about one who comes three days later on the game he has shot:Eat it, provided it has not gone rotten (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Tha'laba al- Khushani with a slight variation of (words):He (the Holy Prophet) said in regard to the game killed by (a trained) dog: Eat after three days provided it has not gone rotten (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tha'laba reported that Allah's Apostle (may peace be upon prohibited the eating of every fanged beast of prey. Zuhri added:We did not bear of it until we came to Syria) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tha'laba al-Khushani reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited the eating of all fanged beasts. Ibn Shihab said:I did not bear of this from our 'Ulama' in the Hijaz, until Abu Idris narrated that to me and he was one of the jurists of Syria (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tha'laba al-Khushani reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having prohibited the eating of all fanged beasts of prey (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through several other chains of transmitters, but some of the chains have a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The eating of all fanged beasts of prey is unlawful (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited the eating of all fanged beasts of prey, and all the birds having talons (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the eating) of all the fanged beasts of prey, and of all the birds having talons (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr reported on the authority of Jabir that in the expedition of Khabat (leaves) a person slaughtered three camels, then three, then three, then Abu 'Ubaida forbade him (to do so fearing that the rides may become short) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) sent us (on an expedition), and we were three hundred in number, and we were carrying our bags of provisions around our necks (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent an expedition to the land of the tribe of Juhaina, and appointed a person as a chief over them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abi Talib reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade on the Day of Khaibar temporary marriage (Muta') with women and the eating of the flesh of domestic asses (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri through a different chain of transmitters with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tha'laba reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited (the eating) of the flesh of domestic asses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) forbade the eating of the flesh of domestic asses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the eating of the (flesh) of domestic asses on the Day of Khaibar in spite of the fact that people needed that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Adi (he was the son of Thabit) said:I heard al-Bara' and 'Abdullah b. Abu Aufa say: We found domestic asses and we cooked them. Then the announcer of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made an announcement that the earthen pots should be turned over (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' said:We found on the Day of Khaibar domestic asses, and the announcer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) made an announcement that the earthen pots should be turned over (from eng-muslim.txt)
Bara was heard saying:We were forbidden (to eat) the flesh of the domestic asses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Bara' b. 'Azib reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded us to throw away the flesh of domestic asses whether uncooked or cooked; he then never commanded us to eat that (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Asim with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Yazid b. Abu Ubaid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited eating of the flesh of domestic asses on the Day of Khaibar, and permitted the cooking of the flesh of horses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah is reported to have said:We ate during the time of Khaibar the (flesh) of horses and of wild asses, but Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited us (to eat) the flesh of domestic asses (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has hen transmitted on the authority of Ibn Juraij (from eng-muslim.txt)
Asma' reported:We slaughtered a horse and ate it during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Hisham (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about the eating of (the flesh) of the lizard, whereupon he said: I am neither the eater of it nor its prohibitor (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported:A person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the eating of the lizard, whereupon he said. I neither eat it, nor do I prohibit it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that a person asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as he was sitting on the pulpit about the eating of the lizard, whereupon he said:I neither eat it, nor do I prohibit it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:While we were in the house of Maimuna there were brought to Allah's Messenger two roasted lizards. Here no mention is made of al- 'Asamm narrating from Maimuna (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that there had been brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the flesh of a lizard and Khalid b. Walid was also present there. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abu Aufa reported:We went on seven expeditions with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and ate locusts (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Ya'fur with the same chain of transmitters. Abu Bakr (one of the narrators) said" seven expeditions," whereas Ishaq said" six," and Ibn Umar said" six" or" seven (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abu Ya'fur with the same chain of transmitters, and he mentioned seven expeditions (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Yahya with a slight change of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Kahmas (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ayyub with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Khalid al-Hadhdha' through different chains o transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said this:Do not make anything having life as a target (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade that any beast should be killed after it has been tied (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of al-Aswad b. Qais with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of al-Bara' b. 'Azib through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
al-Bara' b. 'Azib reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) addressed us on the day of Nahr after the ('Id) prayer. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters, but did not mention tht doubt (expressed in his statement) That is (the goat of less than a year) is better than a goat of more than one year (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) offered the 'Id prayer and then delivered the sermon giving the command:He who slaughtered the animal before prayer should slaughter (another animal as a sacrifice). The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Sacrifice only a grown-up animal, unless it is difficult for you, in which case sacrifice a ram (of even less than a year, but more than six months' age) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. 'Amir reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave the gifts of goats to be distributed amongst his Companions. They sacrificed them, but a lamb of one year of age was left. (Someone) made a mention of that to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), whereupon he said:You sacrifice it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Uqba b. 'Amir al-Juhan with a slight change of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sacrificed with his own hands two horned rams which were white with black markings reciting the name of Allah and glorifying Him (saying Allah-o-Akbar). He placed his foot on their sides (while sacrificing) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sacrificed two horned rams of white colour with black markings over them. He also stated:I saw him sacrificing them with his own hand and saw him placing his foot on their sides, and recited the name of Allah and Glorified Him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba reported:Qatada informed me that he had heard Anas saying that Allah's Messenger (may peace be npon him) sacrificed (the horned rams) and like that. I said: Did you (Qatada) hear from Anas? He said. Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Anas with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sa'id b. Masruq with the same chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ubaid reported:I was with 'Ali b. Abi Talib on the occasion of the 'Id day. He started with the 'Id prayer before delivering the sermon, and said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade us to eat the flesh of our sacrificial animals beyond three days (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said:None of you should eat the flesh of his sacrificial animal beyond three days (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade that the flesh of sacrificial animals be eaten beyond three (days) Salim (son of Ibn Umar) said:Ibn 'Umar did not eat the flesh of the sacrificial animals beyond three (days). Ibn Abu 'Umar said:" Beyond three days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade eating of the flesh of sacrificed animals beyond three (days). but afterwards said:Eat, make a provision, and keep it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported:We did not eat the flesh of our sacrificial animals beyond three days in Mina. Then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) permitted us saying: Eat and make it a provision (for journey). I asked 'Ata' whether Jabir had also said: Till we came to Medina. He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:We did not eat the flesh of sacrificed animals beyond three (days), but then Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded us to make it a provision for journey and cat it (beyond three days) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:We made provision (out of the flesh of sacrificed animals for our journey) to Medina during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Thauban reported that Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him) slaughtered his sacrificial animal and then said:Thauban, make his meat usable (for journey), and I continuously served him that until he arrived in Medina (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mu'awiya b. Salih with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:(The sacrifice of Fara' and 'Atira) has no (sanction in Islam). Ibn Rafi' made this addition in his narration that Fara' means the first-born young one of a camel (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Buraida, on the authority of his father, reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said this:I used to forbid you. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Salama reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone of you intends to offer sacrifice he should not get his hair cut or nails trimmed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Salama reported (these words) directly from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ):If anyone has in his possession a sacrificial animal to offer as a sacrifice (on 'Id al-Adha), he should not get his hair cut and nails trimmed after he has entered the first days of Dhu'l Hijja (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. Muslim al-Jundani reported that Ibn Musayyib had told him that it was Umm Salama, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), who had informed him of that as narrated above (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Juraij with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been narrated likewise through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik said:I was serving wine to Abu Talha, Abu Dujana, and Suhail b. Baida' from a waterskin which contained the mixture of unripe dates and fresh dates. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik is reported to have said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had forbidden to mixture fresh dates and unripe dates and then drinking (the wine prepared out of it), and that was their common intoxicant when liquor was prohibited (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:Allah revealed the verse in which Allah prohibited the use of liquor. In those days no other liquor was drunk but that prepared from dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about the use of Khamr from which vinegar is prepared. He said:No (it is prohibited) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:Wine is prepared from the (fruit) of these two trees-date-palm and vine (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Wine comes from vine and date-palms. Abu Kuraib has narrated it with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah al-Ansari reported that Allah's Messenger (may peace upon him) prohibited the mixing of grapes and fresh dates, and dry dates and fresh dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah al-Ansari reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited the (preparation of) Nabidh by mixing together fresh dates and grapes, and he prohibited the preparation of Nabidh by mixing the fresh dates and unripe dates together (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not mix fresh dates and dry dates, and grapes and fresh dates for preparing Nabidh (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah al-Ansari reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) Prohibited the preparation of Nabidh by mixing grapes and fresh dates. and he forbade the preparation of Nabidh by mixing unripe dates with fresh dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) prohibited that fresh dates and grapes be mixed together and that fresh dates and unripe dates be mixed together (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) prohibited us to mix grapes and dry dates together and unripe dates and dry dates (to prepare Nabidh) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abi Maslama with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who amongst you drinks Nabidh should drink that (prepared either from) grapes alone, or from dates alone, or from unripe dates alone (and not by mixing them with one another) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yahya b. Abu Kathir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yahya b. Abu Kathir through these two chains of transmitters but with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abu Qatada through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation of Nabidh) from grapes and dates, and unripe dates and dry dates (by mixing them together). He (the Prophet also) said:Prepare Nabidh from each one of them separately (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade the mixing of dates and grapes together, and mixing of unripe dates and ripe dates together (for preparing Nabidh), and he wrote to the people of Jurash (in Yemen) forbidding them to prepare the mixture of dates and grapes (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that he was forbidden to prepare Nabidh by mixing unripe dates and fresh dates, and dates with grapes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that they were forbidden to prepare Nabidh by mixing dry dates and fresh dates and dates and grapes together (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the preparation of Nabidh in gourd or varnished jar (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith is narrated through a different chain with slight variation in wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not prepare Nabidh in gourd or jar or in a pitcher besmeared with pitch (known as green pitcher) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation of Nabidh) in varnished jar, pitcher besmeared with green pitch and hollow stump. It was said to Abu Huraira:What that Hantama was? He said: It is green pitcher (besmeared with pitch) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said to the group of Abd al-Qais:I forbid you (to prepare Nabidh) in gourd. and green pitcher, hollow stump and varnished jar and the waterskin having its upper end cut, but (prepare it) in your small waterskin, and tie its mouth (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade to prepare Nabidh in gourd and varnished jar. This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation) of Nabidh in gourd and varnished jar (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been narrated likewise through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbidding (the preparation of Nabidh) in varnished jar, green pitcher, gourd, and hollow stump (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ishaq b. Suwaid reported through the same chain of transmitters but for the difference that he substituted the word" gourd" for" waterskin" (meant for preserving wine) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade the (preparation of Nabidh) in gourd in pitcher besmeared with pitch, in varnished jar, and in hollow stumps (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade, the preparation of Nabidh in gourd, in varnished jar, hollow stump and from mixing up ripe dates with nearly ripe dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (preparation) of Nabidh in gourd, in hollow stump and in varnished jar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation) of Nabidh in a green pitcher (besmeared with pitch) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation) of Nabidh in gourd, in pitcher besmeared with green pitch, in hollow stump and in varnished jar (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation of) Nabidh, the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade drinking in green pitcher, in gourd and in the hollow stump (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Jubair reported:I bear testimony to the fact that Ibn 'Umar and Ibn 'Abbas testified to the fact that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation) of Nabidh in gourd in vessel besmeared with pitch and hollow stump (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn 'Umar with different chains of transmitters but they have not mentioned:" In one of his expeditions" except Malik and Usama (from eng-muslim.txt)
Thabit reported:I said to Ibn 'Umar that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had forbidden the preparation of Nabidh in the green pitcher (besmeared with pitch). He said: This is what they stated. I said: Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbid this? He said: They said so (from eng-muslim.txt)
A person asked Ibn 'Umar if the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade the preparation of Nabidh in a green pitcher (besmeared with pitch). He said:Yes. Then Tawus said: By Allah, I heard it from him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that a person came to him and said:Did Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbid the preparation of Nabidh in a green pitcher (besmeared with pitch and) in varnished jar? He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation) of Nabidh in a green pitcher (besmeared with pitch) and in varnished jar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibrahim b. Maisarah reported that he heard Tawus as saying:I was sitting with Ibn 'Umar when a man came to him, and said: Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbid the preparation of Nabidh in a green pitcher (besmeared with pitch), in varnished jar and in gourd? Thereupon he said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muharib b. Dithar reported:I heard Ibn 'Umar say: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation of Nabidh) in a pitcher besmeared with pitch, in gourd, in varnished jar. He said, I heard it from him more than once (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muharib b. Dithar reported a hadith like this on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through a different chain of transmitters. He (the narrator) said:I think he also made a mention of hollow stump (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. Huraith said:I heard Ibn 'Umar saying: The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation of Nabidh) in a green pitcher (besmeared with pitch), in varnished jar, and in gourd, and he said: Prepare Nabidh in small waterskins (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabalah reported:I heard Ibn 'Umar narrating that Allah's messenger (ﷺ) had forbidden (the preparation of Nabidh) in the pitcher besmeared with pitch. I said to him: What is Huntama? He said: It is a pitcher (besmeared with pitch) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Jabir and Ibn Umar that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation) of Nabidh in hollow stump and varnished jar and gourd (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported on the authority of Ibn Umar that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the preparation of Nabidh in) a green pitcher (besmeared with pitch) and gourd and varnished jar (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Jabir b. Abdullah that Nabidh was prepared for him in a big bowl of stone (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Nabidh was prepared for Allan's Messenger (ﷺ) in a waterskin, but if they did not find waterskin it was prepared in a big bowl of stone. One of the persons and I had heard from Abu Zubair that it was Biram (a vessel made of stone) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Buraida, on the authority of his father, reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I had forbidden you from the preparation of Nabidh except in a waterskin. But now you may drink in all vessels, but do not drink what is intoxicant (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about Bit'i, whereupon he said: Every drink that causes intoxication is forbidden (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about it, whereupon he said that everything that causes intoxication is forbidden (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Every intoxicant is Khamr and every intoxicant is forbidden. He who drinks wine in this world and dies while he is addicted to it, not having repented, will not be given a drink in the Hereafter (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar, through another chain of transmitters; reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said this:Every intoxicant is Khamr and every intoxicant is forbidden (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Musa b. Uqba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported Ibn 'Umar as saying:I do not know this but from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) who said: Every intoxicant is Khamr and every Khamr is forbidden (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who drank (wine) in this world would be deprived of it in the Hereafter (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:He who drank wine in the world and did not repent would be deprived of it (the pure drink) in the Hereafter. It was said to Malik: Is this hadith Marfu'? He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who drank wine in this world will not be provided with pure drink in the Hereafter, except in case he repents (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported this hadith from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Nabidh was prepared for Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in the waterskin, Shu'ba said:It was the night of Monday. He drank it on Monday and on Tuesday up to the afternoon, and If anything was left out of it he gave it to his servant or poured it out (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that raisins were steeped in water for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he would drink it on that day and on the next day and on the following day until the evening of the third day. He would then order it to be drunk by (other people) or to be thrown away (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl reported that Abu Usaid al-Sa'idi came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ; the rest of the hadith is the same, but he did not mention this:when he had eaten (the food) she gave him this to drink (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Sa'd reported (this hadith through another chain of transmitters) and he said (these words):" In a big bowl of stone, and when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had taken the food, she drenched the dates and served (this) especially to him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:I served drink to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in this cup of mine: honey, Nabidh, water and milk (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters, but he did not mention Aelia (Capitolina. i. e. Bait al-Maqdis) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Humaid Sa'idi reported through another chain of transmitters that he brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a cup containing milk, but there is no mention of the word" in the night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that a person who was known as Abu Humaid brought for him (the Holy Prophet) a cup of milk from al-Naqi'. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him:Why did you not cover it even with a wood across it? (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Jabir but with a slight change of wording, and he did not mention the words:" Putting a stick across the vessel (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Shut the doors; the rest of the hadith is the same but with a slight variation of wording: Cover the utensils, and further said: It (the mouse) may set fire to the clothes of the residents of the house (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Jabir through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of words:" The mouse may set the house on fire over its inhabitants (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Juraij (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not let your animals and children go out when the sun sets until the first and the darkest part of the night is over, for the Satan is let loose with the sinking of the sun until the darkest part of the night is over (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported this hadith through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Cover the vessels and tie the waterskin, for there is a night in a year when pestilence descends, and it does not pass an uncovered vessel or an untied waterskin but some of that pestilence descending into it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim, on the authority of his father, reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:Do not leave the fire burning in your houses when you go to sleep (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported that a house was burnt down in Medina during the night over its inhabitants. When their matter was reported to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he said; This fire is an enemy of yours. So when you go to sleep, extinguish it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. Abdullah through the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:Do not eat with your left hand, for the Satan eats with his left hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you intends to eat (meal), he should eat with his right hand. and when he (intends) to drink he should drink with his right hand, for the Satan eats with his left hand and drinks with his left hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported by Zuhri on the authority of Sufyan with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar b. Abu Salama reported:I was under the care of Allah's Messenger (way peace be upon him), and as my hand used to roam about in the dish he said to me: Boy, mention the name of Allah, and eat with your right hand and eat from what is near to you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar b. Abu Salama reported:I (had the opportunity) one day to dine with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and I picked up flesh from around the dish. Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: Eat from that which is near to you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id (Khudri) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade from turning the waterskins upside down and drinking from its mouth (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri reported that Allah's, Messenger (may peace he upon him) forbade from turning the waterskins upside down and drinking from their mouths (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported from Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters, but he also said that Ikhtinath means that its head (i. e., of the waterskin) be turned upside down and then (water) be drank from that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) disapproved the drinking of water while standing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade that a person should drink while standing. Qatada reported:We said to him: What about eating? Thereupon he (Anas) said: That is even worse and more detestable (abominable) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Anas with a different chain of transmitters, but no mention is made of the words of Qatada (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) warned against drinking while standing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri reported this hadith through another chain of transmitters but with a slight, variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should drink while standing; and if anyone forgets, he must vomit (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported:I served. (water of) Zamzam to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and he drank it while standing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) drank (water) from Zamzam in a bucket while he was standing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) drank (water) from Zamzam while he was standing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported:I served (water from) Zamzam to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), and he drank while standing, and he asked for it while he was near the House (i. e. House of Allah-Ka'ba) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade breathing in a vessel (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to breathe three times in the course of a drink (i. e. he drank in three gulps) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) breathed three times (outside the vessel) in the course of a drink and said:It is more thirst- quenching, healthier and more wholesome. Anas said: So I also breathe three times in the course of a drink (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Anas with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of Sahl b. Sa'd with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him.) as saying:When any one of you eats food he should not wipe his hand until he has licked it or has it licked (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you eats food he should not wipe his hand until he has licked it or have it licked (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Ka'b b. Malik reported on the authority of his father that he saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) licking his three fingers (after having finished the food). Ibn Hatim made no mention of" three". This hadith is also narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Ka'b b. Malik reported on the authority of his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to eat (food) with three fingers and he licked his hand before wiping it (with towel) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Ka'b reported that his father Ka'b narrated to him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to eat with three fingers and when he had finished (eating), he licked them (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported on the authority of Ka'b b. Malik through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded the licking of fingers and the dish, saying:You do not know in what portion the blessing lies (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sufyan with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of words but no mention is made of the first part of the hadith, i. e. the Satan is present with any one of you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported from Allah's Messenger. (ﷺ) about mentioning the licking (of fingers) and the (falling of) the mouthful (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you eats food he should lick his fingers, for he does not know in what part of the food sticking to his fingers the blessing lies (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Hammad with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu Mas'ud Ansari through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Jabir also (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported this hadith (with a slight variation of wording) Then AlIah's Messenger (ﷺ) ate and the people of his house also ate. but (still) there was left a surplus, which they sent to their neighbours (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported this hadith pertaining to the entertainment of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) by Abu Talha through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik rdported that a tailor invited Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) to a feast. There has been an addition to this that Thabit said:I heard Anas saying that any meal that was prepared for me after that I tried that it should contain pumpkin (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters and they did not doubt about keeping the dates between his fingers (as is expressed in the previous hadith) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Ja'far reported:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eating cucumber with fresh dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:I saw Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) squatting and eating dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that there were brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) dates. He distributed them in the state that he had been sitting upright (in an easy posture) and he had also been eating them a (bit) quickly (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but these words of his (are not found):" The people were hard pressed because of the famine during those days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabala b. Suhaim reported:I heard Ibn 'Umar as saying that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade anyone taking two dates together without seeking the consent of his companions (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A family which has dates will not be hungry (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:'A'isha a family which has no dates (in their house) its members will be hungry; (or) 'A'isha the family which has no dates its members may be hungry. He said this twice or thrice (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amir b. Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas, on the authority of his father, reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:He who ate seven dates (of the land situated) between these two lava plains in the morning, no poison will harm him until it is evening (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amir b. Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who ate seven 'ajwa' dates in the morning, poison and magic will not harm him on that day (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn Hashim with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The 'ajwa' dates of 'Aliya' contain healing effects and these are antidote in the early morning (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Zaid b. 'Amr b. Nufail reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: Truffles are a kind of 'Manna' and their juice is a medicine for the eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Through another chain of transmitters, Sa'id b. Zaid b. 'Amr reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: Truffles are a kind of 'Manna' and their juice is a medicine for the eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Zaid reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Truffles are a kind of blessing and their juice is a medicine for the eyes. Shu'ba said: When Hakam narrated this hadith to me, I did not deem it as a Munkar hadith because of the narration of Abd al-Malik (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Zaid b. 'Amr b. Nufail reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Truffles are a kind of 'Manna' which Allah the Glorious and Exalted, sent down upon the people of Israil, and its juice is a medicine for the eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Zaid reported Allal a Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Truffles are a kind of 'Manna' which Allah sent down upon Moses and their juice is a medicine for the eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Zaid reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Truffles are 'Manna' which Allah, the Exalted the Majestic, sent to the people of Israil, and its juice is a medicine for the eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'id b. Zaid reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Truffles are 'Manna' and its juice is the medicine for the eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The best of condiments or condiment is vinegar (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Sulaiman b. Bilal with the same chain of transmitters and he is reported to have said:" The best condiment." And he did not doubt (about this word) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) asked his family for condiment. They (the members of his household) said:We have nothing with us but vinegar. He asked for it, he began to eat it, and then said: Vinegar is a good condiment, vinegar is a good condiment (from eng-muslim.txt)
This Hadith is narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Mughira with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Food for two persons suffices three persons and food for three persons suffices four persons (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this is reported on the authority of Jabir but with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Food for one suffices two and food for two suffices for four (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Food for one (person) suffices two, and food for two (persons) suffices four persons and food for four persons suffices eight persons (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that a non-Muslim eats in seven intestines whereas a Muslim eats in one intestine (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn 'Umar but with a different chain oi transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that Ibn 'Umar saw a poor man. He placed food before him and he ate much. He (Ibn 'Umar) said:He should not come to me. for I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that the non-Muslim eats in seven intestines (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A believer eats in one intestine, whereas a non-believer eats in seven intestines (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Jabir (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A believer eats in one intestine, whereas a non-believer eats in seven intestines (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never found fault with food (served to him). If he liked anything, he ate it and if he did not like it he left it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of A'mash (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I never saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) finding fault with food (served to him) ; if he liked it he ate it, and if did not like it he kept silent. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Salama, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), said:He who drinks in the vessel of silver in fact drinks down in his belly the fire of Hell (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman reported on the authority of his mother's sister Umm Salama who said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:He who drank in vessels of gold or silver he in fact drank down in his belly the fire of Hell (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ash'ath b. Sulaim with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight change of wording that he made no mention of:" to fulfil the vows" but substituted these words:" finding of the lost articles (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the auttiniity of Ash'ath b. Sulaim with the same chain of transmitters but the words (pertaining to) Ifsha as-Salam and the (use) of gold ring have been reported without doubt (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of `Abdullah b. `Ukaim with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of lbn `Ukaim through another chain of transmitters, but in this hadith no mention is made of the words:"On the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba reported from al-Hakam that he heard 'Abd al-Rahmin (i. e. Ibn Abu Laila) as saying:I personally saw Hudhaifa asking for water in Mada'in and a man giving it to him in a silver vessel. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu`ba through another chain of transmitters. But there is no mention of "I personally saw him" in this hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Hudhaila with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Ibn Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that 'Umar saw a person with a garment of brocade and he brought it to Allah's Apostle (may peace he upon him) -the rest of the hadith is the same, except for the words that he (the Holy Prophet) said:I sent it to you that you might get money thereby (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Asim (from eng-muslim.txt)
The previous hadith is narrated likewise through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Qatada but there is no mention of the words of Abd Uthman (from eng-muslim.txt)
Suwaid b. Ghafala said:'Umar addressed us at a place known as Jabiya (Syria) and he said: Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade us the wearing of silk but to the extent of two or three fingers or four fingers (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Muhammad b. Ja'far but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported that Ukaidir of Duma presented to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) a silk garment, and he presented it to 'Ali. and said:Tear it to make head covering for Fitimas out of it. This tradition is transmitted on the authority of Abu Bakr, and Abu Kuraib said: Among the women (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abu Talib reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave me to wear a garment in the form of silk cloak. I went out wearing it, but saw signs of anger on his face, so I tore it and distributed it amongst my women (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:He who wore silk in this world would not wear it in the Hereafter (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Umama reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:He who wore silk in this world would not wear it in the Hereafter (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. 'Amir said:A silk go vn was presented to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he wore it and observed prayer in it and then returned and put it off so violently as if he despised it. He then said: It does not befit the Godfearing persons (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of azid b. Abu Habib with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sa'd with the same chain of transmitters but there is no mention of the word" journey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) granted concession, or Zubair b. Awwam and 'Abd Al-Rahman b. Auf were granted concession, for the wearing of silk because of the itch that they both had (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that 'Abd al-Rahman b. Auf and Zu'bair. b. 'Awwam complained to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about lice; he granted them concession to wear shirts of silk (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Amr b. al-As reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw me wearing two clothes dyed in saffron. whereupon he said: These are the clothes (usually worn by) the non-believers, so do not wear them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Yahya b. Abu Kathir with the same chain of trarnmitteis (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Amr reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saw me in two clothes dyed in saffron, whereupon he said: Has your mother ordered you to do so? And I said: I will wash them. He said: But burn them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abu Talib reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade wearing of silk and yellow clothes, and the gold ring, and the reciting of the Qur'an in the ruku' (state of kneeling in prayer) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abu Talib reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade me to recite the Qur'an while I am in ruku; and the wearing of gold and clothes dyed in saffron (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abu Talib reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade me to use gold rings. to wear silk clothes and to recite the Qur'an in ruku' and sajda (prostration), and to wear yellow garments (from eng-muslim.txt)
(Qatada said:We asked Anas b. Malik which garment did Allah's Messenger may peace be upon him) love or like (to wear). He said: The mantle of Yemen (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the garment most liked by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the mantle of Yemen (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Burda reported:I visited A'isha and she brought out for us the coarse lower garfnent (of Allah's Messenger) made in Yemen and clothes made out of Mulabbada cloth, and she swore in the name of Allah that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died in these two clothes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Burda reported that A'isha brought out for us the lower garment and the upper garment made of the Mulabbada cloth and said:It was in these (clothes) that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died. Ibn Hatim (one of the narrators) in his narration Wd: The lower garment of coarse cloth (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ayyub with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) went out one morning wearing a blanket made of (camel's or sheep's) black hair with patterns of camel saddles upon it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the pillow on which Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) reclined was of leather stuffed with palm fibre (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the bedding on which. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) slept was made of leather stuffed with palm fibre (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Hisham b. 'Urwa with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:When I was married, Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) asked me if I had got the carpet. I said: How can we have carpets? (i. e. I am so poor that I cannot even think of carpets). whereupon he said: You shall soon possess them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sufyan with the saule chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Messengor (ﷺ) said:There should be a bedding for a man. a bedding for his wife and the third one for the guest, and the fourth one is for the Satan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:Allah will not look upon him who trails his garment out of pride (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through other chains of transmitters also with the addition of these words:" On the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:He who trails his (lower) garment out of pride, Allah will not look toward him on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:He who trailed his garment out of pride, Allah would not look toward him on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim reported:I heard Ibn Umar as saying that he had heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying like this (as mentioned above) but with a slight variation of wording [that instead of the word thaub (cloth) there is the word thiyab (the clothes) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Muslim b. Yannaq through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said that there was a person who used to walk with pride because of his thick hair and fine mantles. He was made to sink in the earth and he would go on sinking in the earth until the Last Hour would come (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira but with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There was a person who walked with pride because of his (fine) mantles and well pleased with his personality. Allah made him sink in the earth and he would go on sinking in that until the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira but with a slight variation of wording:While there was a man who strutted in his two mantles (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There was a person (living before you) who took pride in his cloak. the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) forbade the wearing of gold signet ring (from eng-muslim.txt)
The previous hadith is narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through other chains of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has also been likewise narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through several other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters but there is no mention of the words (Muhammad, Messenger of Allah) in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:I saw one day on the finger of Allah's Messenger (may peace be Upon him) a silver ring; so the people also got silver rings made and wore them Then Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) discarded his ring, and the people also discarded their rings (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that one day he saw on the finger of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a silver ring, and the people also made silver rings and put them on. Then Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) threw his ring away, and so the people also threw away their rings (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported on the authority of Ibn Juraij with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that the ring of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was made of silver and it had an Abyssinian stone in it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) wore a silver ring on his right hand which had an Abyssinian stone in it, and he kept its stone towards the palm (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yunus b. Yazid with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the ring of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) was on this, and he pointed toward the little finger of his left hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported on the authority of 'Ali through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali b. Abu Talib reported that he (Allah'. s Apostle) forbade or forbade me. the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ali reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade me that I should wear a ring in this and that finger of mine, and he pointed to the middle finger and the next one (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saying during an expedition in which we also participated: Make a general practice of wearing sandals, for a man is riding as it were when he wears sandals (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:"When one of you puts on sandals, he should first put in the right foot, and when he takes off he should take off the left one first. And he should wear both of them or take both off (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should walk in one sandal; either he should wear the two or should take off the two (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu Huraira with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jalbir b. Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should lie on his back and place one of his feet upon the other (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abbad b. Tamim reported from his uncle that he saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) lying in the mosque and placing his one foot upon the other (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitter (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Apostle (may peace he upon him) forbade dyeing (one's cloth or hair) in saffron. Hammad said that it pertains to men only (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade that a person should (wear) clothes dyed in saffron (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Abu Qubafa was led (to the andience of the Holy Prophet) on the day of the Conquest of Mecca and his head and beard were white like hyssop, whereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Change it with something but avoid black (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Horaira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Jews and the Christians do not dye (their hair), so oppose them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Hazim with the same chain of transmitters that Gabriel had promised Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that he would come; the rest of the hadith is the same, but it is not so lengthy as the other one (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Talha reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said:Angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or a picture (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Talha reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Angels do not enter the house in which there is a dog or a statue (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came back from the journey and I had screened my door with a curtain having portraits of winged horses upon it. He commanded me and I pulled it away (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrpted on the authority of Waki' with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'isha through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (and the variation is that the narrator is reported to have said):He (the Holy Prophet) inclined towards that curtain and tore it with his hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported she had a cloth havinc, pictures upon it and it was hanging upon the shelf and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Take it (away) from me (from my sight), so I removed it and made cushions from that (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) visited me when I had screened (my door) with a carpet having pictures on it. He removed it and we made cushions out of that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:Those who paint pictures would be punished on the Day of Resurrection and it would be said to them: Breathe soul into what you have created (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported a hadith like this through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Verity the most grievously tormented people on the Day of Resurrection would be the painters of pictures. Ashajj (one of the narrators) in the hadith narrated by him did not make mention of the word" verity (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Angels do not accompany the travellers who have with them a dog and a bell (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Suhail with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The bell is the musical instrument of the Satan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade (the animals to be beaten) on the face or cauterisation on the face (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Jabir b. 'Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that there happened to pass before Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) an ass the face of which had been cauterised, whereupon he said:Allah has cursed one who has cauterised it (on the face) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:We went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as he was in the fold and he was cauterising the animals of the flock and I think (he was cauterising them) on their ears. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:We went to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as he was in the fold and he was cauterising the animals of the flock and I think (he was cauterising them) on their ears. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:I saw in the hand of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) an instrument for cauterisation and he was cauterising the caracia collected as Zakat (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade Qaza. I said to Nafi:What is Qaza'? He said: This means having a part of a boy's head shaved and leaving a part unshaven (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters. and the exposition of Qaza' is the same as that of Abu Usama (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Umar b. Nafi' with the same chain of transmitters and Muhammad b. Muthanna as well as 'Umar b. Nafi have given the same exposition (of the word Qaza') in their narration (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Zaid b. Aslam with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Asma', daughter of Abu Bakr, reported that a woman came to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and said:I have married my daughter (whose) hair of head have fallen. Her spouse likes them (the long hair). Allah's Messenger (may add false hair to her head? He forbade her to do this) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cursing the woman who added false hair and the woman who asked for tattoos. This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cursing the woman who added false hair and the woman who asked for tattoos. This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Mansur with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mansur without the story pertaining to Umm Ya'qub (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abdullah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) reprimanded that a woman should add anything to her head (in the form of artificial hair) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The names dearest to Allah are 'Abdullah and 'Abd al-Rahman (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Husain With the same chain of transmitters but no mention is made of these words:" (I have been sent as a distributor), so I distribute amongst you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters but there is a slight variation (of wording) that, instead of the word Bu'ithat (I have been sent), the word ju'ilat (I have been made) has been used (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through different chains of transmitters on the authority of Shu'ba with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn Uyaina, but there is no mention of this:" We will not allow you to cool your eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Abu'l-Qasim (ﷺ) said:Give name (to your children) after my name but do not give the kunya (of Abu'l- Qasim) after my kunya. 'Amr reported from Abu Huraira that he did not say that he had heard it directly from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Samura b. Jundub reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) forbade us to give names to our servants as these four names: Aflah (Successful), Rabdh (Profit), Yasar (Wealth), and Nafi' (Beneficial) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Samura b. Jundub reported AUah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Don't give names to your servants as Rabdh, 'Ya ar, Aflah and Nafi (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Shu'ba and there is no mention but of the fact about giving the name to the servant and there is no mention of the four expressions (of remembrance) and he did not mention the four words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) changed the name of 'Asiya (Disobedient) and said:You are Jamila (i. e. good and handsome). Ahmad (one of the narrators) narrated it with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that 'Umar had a daughter who was called 'Asiya. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave her the name of Jamila (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that the name of Zainab was Barra. It was said of her:She presents herself to be innocent. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave her the name of Zainab (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zainab, daughter of Umm Salama, reported:My name first was Barra. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave me the name of Zainab. Then there entered (into the house of Allah's Prophet as a wife) Zainab, daughter of Jahsh, and her name was also Barra, and he gave her the name of Zainab (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmit ters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported:A child was born in my house and I brought him to Allah's Apostle (may peace be upod him) and he gave him the name of Ibrahim and he rubbed his palate with dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
Asma', daughter of Abu Bakr, reported that when she migrated to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in Medina she was in the family way with Abdullah b. Zubair in her womb (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that the new-born infants were brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). He blessed them and rubbed their palates with dates (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:We took 'Abdullah b. Zubair to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) so that he should put saliva in his mouth and we had to make a good deal of effort in order to procure them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) addressed me:O My Son (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ismail, with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yazid b. Khusaifa with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:Abu Sa'id said: So I stood up, and went to 'Umar and gave witness (to what Abu Musa had said) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith bu been narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Juraij, but there is no mention of the words" business in the market (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported:I came to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and called him (with a view to seeking permission). whereupon Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said: Who is it? I said: It is I. Thereupon he (the Holy Prophet) came out saying: It is I. it is I (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported:I sought permission from Allah's Messenger (may peace be upoh him) to see him. He said: Who is it? I said: It is I. Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: It is I. it is I (these words lead me to no conclusion) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba with a slight variation of wording and that is:The Prophet (ﷺ) uttered these words: It is I. it is I." in the manner as if he disapproved of this (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Sahl b. Sa'd as-Sa'idi with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that a person peeped in some of the holes (in the doors) of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (and he found him) standing up (lifting) an arrow or some arrows. The narrator said:I perceived as if Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was going to pierce (his eyes) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported having heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say:He who peeped into the house of people without their consent, it is permissible for them to put out his eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If a person were to cast a glance in your (house) without permission, and you had in your hand a staff and you would have thrust that in his eyes, there is no harm for you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir b. 'Abdullah reported:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the sudden glance (that is cast) on the face (of a non-Mahram). He commanded me that I should turn away my eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yunus through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The rider should first greet the pedestrian, and the pedestrian the one who is seated and a small group should greet a larger group (with as-Salam-u-'Alaikum) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zaid b. Aslam with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When the People of the Book offer you salutations, you should say: The same to you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the Companions of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said to him:The People. of the Book offer us salutations (by saying as-Salamu- 'Alaikum). How should we reciprocate them? Thereupon he said: Say: Wa 'Alaikum (and upon you too) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When the Jews offer you salutations, some of them say as-Sam-u-'Alaikum (death be upon you). You should say (in response to it): Let it be upon you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:I said 'Alaikum, and the transmitter did not make mention of the word "and (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not greet the Jews and the Christians before they greet you and when you meet any one of them on the roads force him to go to the narrowest part of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) happened to pass by young boys he would great them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sayyar with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Mas'ud reported:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: The sign that you have been permitted to come in is that the curtain is raised or that you hear me speaking quietly until I forbid you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters, and the words are:She (Sauda) was a woman who looked to be significant amongst the people (so far as the bulk of her) body was concerned. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters, and the words are:She (Sauda) was a woman who looked to be significant amongst the people (so far as the bulk of her) body was concerned. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Behold, no person should spend the night with a married woman, but only in case he is married to her or he is her Mahram (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uqba b. `Amir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Beware of getting, into the houses and meeting women (in seclusion). A person from the Ansar said: Allah's Messenger, what about husband's brother, whereupon he (ﷺ) said: Husband's brother is like death (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yazid b. Abu Habib with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Wahb reported:I heard Laith b. Said as saying: Al-Hamv means the brother of husband or like it from amongst the relatives of the husband, for example, cousin, etc (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ishaq b. 'Abdullah b. Talha with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:None of you should make another one stand in the meeting and then occupy his place (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No person should ask another person to stand at his place and then he should himself sit there, but he should simply say: Make room and accommodate (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters. but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None should make one'& brother stand and then sit at his place (and it was common with) Ibn Umar that when any person stood in the company (with a view to making room for him) he did not sit there (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith hilt been reported on the authority of Ma'mar with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Apostle (may peace he upon him) as saying:None amongst you should make his brother stand on Friday (during the congregational prayer) and then occupy his-place. but he should only say to him (Accommodate me) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When anyone amongst you stands up, and in the badltb transmitted on the authority of Abu 'Awina, the words are:" He who stands in his place and (goes away) and then comes back to it, he his the greatest right (to occupy that) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When there are three (persons), two should not converse secretly between themselves to the exclusion of the (third) one (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of lbn 'Umar through two different chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If you are three, two amongst you should not converse secretly between yourselves to the exclusion of the other (third one), unti some other people join him (and dispel his loneliness), for it may hurt his feelings (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If you are three, two should not converse secretly to the exclusion of your companion for that hurts his feelings (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha (the wife of Allah's Apostle) said:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell ill, Gabriel used to recite this: "In the name of Allah, may He cure you from all kinds of illnesses and safeguard you from the evil of a jealous one when he feels jealous and from the evil influence of eye (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported so many abidith from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The influence of an evil eye is a fact (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The influence of an evil eye is a fact; if anything would precede the destiny it would be the influence of an evil eye, and when you are asked to take bath (as a cure) from the influence of an evil eye, you should take bath (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that a Jewess brought poisoned meat and then served it to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) visited the sick he would say: Lord of the people. remove the disease, cure him, for Thou art the great Curer, there is no cure but through Thine healing Power, which leaves nothing of the disease (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of 'A'isha through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to recite (this supplication) as the words of incantation:" Lord of the people, remove the trouble for in Thine Hand is the cure; none is there to relieve him (the burden of disease) but only Thou (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitted (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fell ill, he recited over his body Mu'awwidhatan and blew over him and when his sickness was aggravated I used to recite over him and rub him with his band with the hope that it was more blessed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abd al-Rahman b. al-Aswad reported on the authority of his father:I asked 'A'isha about incantation. She said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had granted its sanction to the members of a family of the Ansar for incantation in curing every type of poison (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) granted sanction to the members of a family of the Ansar for incantation (for removing the effects) of the poison of the scorpion (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded the use of incantation for curing the influence of an evil eye (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mis'ar with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) commanded me that I should make use of incantation for curing the influence of an evil eye (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported in connection with incantation that he had been granted sanction (to use incantation as a remedy) for the sting of the scorpion and for curing small pustules and dispelling the influence of an evil eye (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) granted him sanction to use incantation (as a cure) for the, influence of an evil eye, the sting of the scorpion and small pustules (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Juraij with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Auf b. Malik Ashja'i reported We practised incantation in the pre-Islamic days and we said:Allah's Messenger. what is your opinion about it? He said: Let me know your incantation and said: There is no harm in the incantation which does not smack of polytheism (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu Bishr with the same the same chain of transmitters (with these words):That he recited Umm-ul-Qur'an (Sura Fatiha), and he collected his spittle and he applied that and the person became all right (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters and he said:There stood up with her a person amongst us whom we did not know before as an incantator (from eng-muslim.txt)
Uthman b. Abu al-'As reported that he came to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and he narrated like this. In the hadith transmitted on the authority of Salam b. Nuh there is no mention of three times (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Uthman b. Abu al-'As with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is a remedy for every malady, and when the remedy is applied to the disease it is cured with the permission of Allah, the Exalted and Glorious (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that he visited Muqanna' and then said:I will not go away unless you get yourself cupped, for I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say: It is a remedy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent a phystian to Ubayy b. Ka'b. He cut the vein and then cauterised it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'mash reported this with the same chain of transmitters and he made no mention of the fact that he cut one of his veins (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdillah reported that on the day of Ahzab Ubayy received the wound of an arrow in his medial arm vein. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cauterised it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Sa'd b. Mu'adh received a wound of the arrow in his vein. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) cauterised it with a rod and it was swollen, to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did it for the second time (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) got himself cupped and gave to the cupper his wages and he put the medicine in the nostril (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) got himself cupped and never withheld the wages of anyone (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The fever from the vehement raging of the (heat of Hell), so cool it with the help of water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Fever is due to vehemence of the heat of Hell, so cool it with water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Fever is from the vehement raging of the fire of Hell, so extinguish it with water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Fever is from the vehement Paging of the Hell-fire, so cool it with water (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Fever is from the vehement raging of the Hell-fire, so cool it with water (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rafi' b. Khadij reported:I heard Allah's messenger (ﷺ) as saying: The fever is due to the intense heat of the Hell, so cool it with water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Rafi' b. Khadij reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: The fever is due to the intense heat of Hell, so cool it down in your (bodies) with water. Aba Bakr has made no mention of the word" from you" ('ankum), but he said that Rafi' b. Khadij had informed him of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Nigella seed is a remedy for every disease except death (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through other chains of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no disease for which Nigella seed does not provide remedy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Usama reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Plague is a calamity which was inflicted on those who were before you, or upon Bani Isra'il. So when it has broken out in a land, don't run out of it, and when it has spread in a land, then don't enter it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Juraij through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters except for the fact that no mention has been made of the account of 'Ata b. Yasir as in the previous hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Sa'd b. Malik, Khuzaima b. Thabit and Usama b. Zaid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibrahim b. Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas reported:Usama b. Zaid and Sa'd had been sitting and they had been conversing and they said this hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Ibrahim b. Sa'd b. Malik on the authority of his father (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Harith with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no transitive disease, no evil omen, no safar, no hama. A desert Arab said: Allah's, Messenger.... The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no transitive disease and he also reported along with it: The ill should not be taken to the healthy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no transitive disease, no huma, no star promising rain, no safar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no transitive disease, no ghoul, no safar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: There is no divination but the best type is the good omen. It was said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ): What is good omen? Thereupon he said: A good word which one of you hears (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no transitive disease, no divination, but good omen pleases me. It was said: What is good omen? He said: Sacred words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no transitive disease, no divination, but I like good words (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no transitive disease, no hama, no divination, but I like good omen (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If there be bad luck, it is in the house, and the wife, and the horse (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Zuhri with other chains of transmitters but with slight variations of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar b. Muhammad b. Zaid reported that he heard his father narrating from Ibn 'Umar that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said. If bad luck is a fact, then it is in the horse, the woman and the house (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but there is no mention of the word" Haqq"" (fact) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:If there is bad luck in anything, it is the horse, the abode and the woman (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Sa'd reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If bad luck were to be in anything, it is found in the woman, the horse and the abode (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sahl b. Sa'd with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If bad luck were to be in anything, it is found in the land, in the servant and in the horse (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
The hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri through the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Safiyya reported from some of the wives of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said:He who visits a diviner ('Arraf) and asks him about anything, his prayers extending to forty nights will not be accepted (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr b. Sharid reported on the authority of his father that there was in the delegation of Thaqif a leper. Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) sent a message to him:We have accepted your allegiance, so you may go (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded the killing of a snake having stripes over it, for it affects eyesight and miscarries pregnancy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Hisham. He said:The short-tailed snake and the snake having stripes over it should be killed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that Ibn 'Urnar used to kill all types of snakes until Abu Lubaba b. 'Abd al-Mundhir Badri reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had forbidden the killing of the snakes of the houses, and so he abstained from it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that he heard Abu Lubaba informing Ibn 'Umar that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had forbidden the killing of domestic snakes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported that Abu Lubaba had informed him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had forbidden the killing of the snakes found in the house (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that Abu Lubaba happened to pass by Ibn 'Umar who lived in the fortified place near the house of 'Umar b. Khattab and was busy in keeping his eyes upon a snake and killing it, the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of al-A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded a Muhrim (one who is in the state of pilgrimage) to kill the snake at Mina (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported:While we were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in the cave, the rest of the hadith is the same as the one narrated above (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri reported Allah's Messenger having said:There is a group of jinns in Medina who accepted Islam, so he who would see anything from these occupants should warn him three times; and if he appears after that, he should kill him for he is a satan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Sharik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded her to kill geckos. This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Abi Shaiba with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Sharik reported that she consulted Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) in regard to killing of geckos, and he commanded to kill them and Umm Sharik is one of the women of Bani 'Amir b. Luwayy. This hadith has been reported through another chain of transmitters with the same meaning (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amir b. Sa'd reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) commanded the killing of geckos, and he called them little noxious creatures (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said about the gecko as a noxious creature". Harmala made this addition that she said:I did not hear that he had commanded to kill them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying (that he who kills a gecko) with the first stroke there are seventy rewards for him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn 'Umar also (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A woman was punished because of a cat. She had neither provided her with food nor drink, nor set her free so that she might eat the vermin of the earth (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported this hadith through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammam b. Manabbih reported this hadith on the authority of Abu Huraira (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (may pace be upon him) as saying:A prostitute saw a dog moving around a well on a hot day and hanging out its tongue because of thirst. She drew water for it in her shoe and she was pardoned (for this act of hers) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, said: The son of Adam abuses Dahr (the time), whereas I am Dahr since in My hand are the day and the night (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, said: The son of Adam displeases Me by abusing Dahr (time), whereas I am Dahr--I alternate the night and the day (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should say: Woe be upon the Time, for verily Allah is the Time (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Do not curse Time, for it is Allah Who is Time (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should abuse Time for it is Allah Who is the Time, and none of you should call 'Inab (grape) as al-karm, for karm is a Muslim person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not use the word karm (for wine) for worthy of respect is the heart of a believer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Do not name grape as karm, for worthy of respect is a Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should use the word al-harin (for grape) for the heart of a believer is karm (worthy of respect) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) various ahadith, one of which is this that he said:None of you should use the word al-karm for 'Inab, for karm (worthy of respect) is a Muslim person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Alqama b. Wa'il reported, from his father, Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) having said:Do not say al-karm (for the word vine) but say al-habala (that is grape) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by Alqama b. Wa'il on the authority of his father with a different chain of transmitters and with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should say: My bondman and my slave-girl, for all of you are the bondmen of Allah, and all your women are the slave-girls of Allah; but say: My servant, my girl, and my young man and my young girl (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should say: My bondman, for all of you are the bondmen of Allah, but say: My young man, and the servant should not say: My Lord, but should say: My chief (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of al-A'mash with the same chain of transmitters, and the words are that the servant should not say to his chief:My Lord, and Abu Mu'awiya made an addition:" For it is Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, Who is your Lord (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:None of you should say: "My soul has become evil," but he should say: "My soul has become remorseless." This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Bakr with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abia Mu'iwiya with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Umama b. Sahl b. Hunaif, on the authority of his father, reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None of you should say:" My soul has become evil," but he should say:" My soul has become remorseless (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made a mention of a woman of Bana Isra'il who had filled her ring with musk and musk is the most fragrant of the scents (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who is presented with a flower should not reject it, for it is light to carry and pleasant in odour (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nafi' reported that when Ibn Umar wanted fumigation he got it from aloeswood without mixing anything with it, or he put camphor along with aloeswood and then said:This is how Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) fumigated (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The truest word spoken by an Arab (pre-Islamic) in poetry is this verse of Labid: "Behold! apart from Allah everything is vain (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The truest word uttered by a poet is this verse of Labid: "Behold! apart from Allah everything is vain," and Umayya b. Abu Salt was almost a Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The truest verse recited by a poet is: "Behold! apart from Allah everything is vain," and Ibn Abu Salt was almost a Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The truest couplet recited by a poet is: "Behold! apart from Allah everything is vain," and he made no addition to it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: The truest word which the poet stated is the word of Labid: "Behold! apart from Allah everything is vain (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is better for a man's belly to be stuffed with pus which corrodes it than to stuff (one's mind) with frivolous poetry. Abu Bakr has reported it with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa`d reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:It is better for the belly of any one of you to be stuffed with pus rather than to stuff (one's mind) with poetry (from eng-muslim.txt)
Buraida reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:He who played Nardashir (a game similar to backgammon) is like one who dyed his hand with the flesh and blood of swine (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Qatada, but there is no mention of the words of Abu Salama:"I saw dreams (which perturbed me) but I did not cover myself with a mantle (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone sees a dream which he does not like, he should spit on his left side three times, and seek refuge with Allah from the Satan three times, and let him turn over from the side on which he was sleeping (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I love to see fetters but I hate necklace (in a dream), for fetters signifies one's steadfastness in religion, and he also reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: The vision of a believer is forty-sixth part of Prophecy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira and the words are:"When the time draws near," the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. Sirin reported from Abu Huraira a hadith from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and he mentioned in his hadith his words:"I dislike shackles," up to the end of his statement, but he made no mention of this: "A vision is a forty-sixth part of Prophecy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubada b. as-Samit reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The vision of a believer is the forty-sixth part of Prophecy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Verily the vision of a believer is one of the forty-sixth part of Prophecy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The vision of a Muslim which he sees or which is shown to him, and in the hadith transmitted on the authority of Ibn Mushir (the words are): "The pious dream is the forty-sixth part of Prophecy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The vision of a pious man is the forty-sixth part of Prophecy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yahya b. Abu Kathir with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn `Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The pious dreams are the seventieth part of Prophecy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of `Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported on the authority of Nafi` with the same chain of transmitters (and the words are):"I think Ibn `Umar said: The seventieth part from Prophecy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who saw me in a dream in fact saw me, for the satan does not appear in my form (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: He who saw me in a dream would soon see me in the state of wakefulness, or as if he saw me in a state of wakefulness, for the satan does not appear in my form (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Qatada reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who saw me in dream in fact saw the truth (what is true) (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above two hadith have been narrated likewise through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. `Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who saw me in a dream in fact saw me, for the satan cannot assume my form (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn `Abbas reported that there came to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) a person as he was returning from Uhud and he said:Allah's Messenger, I saw in sleep during the night a canopy trickling butter and honey; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is reported either on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas or on that of Abu Huraira that a person came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said:Verily I saw during the night a canopy; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn `Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say to his Companions:He who amongst you sees a vision should narrate it and I would interpret it for him, and a person came and said: Allah's Messenger, I saw a canopy. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Samura b. Jundab reported that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had performed his dawn prayer he turned his face towards them (that is towards his Companions) and said:Did any one of you see any vision last night? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I recognise the stone in Mecca which used to pay me salutations before my advent as a Prophet and I recognise that even now (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I shall be pre-eminent amongst the descendants of Adam on the Day of Resurrection and I will be the first intercessor and the first whose intercession will be accepted (by Allah) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) called for water and he was given a vessel and the people began to perform ablution in that and I counted (the persons) and they were between sixty and eighty and I saw water which was spouting from his fingers (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) was at az-Zaura' and a vessel containing water was brought to him in which his finger could not be completely dipped or completely covered; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Amr b. Yahya with the same chain of transmitters up to the words:There is good in all the houses of the Ansar, and there is no mention of the subsequent event pertaining to Sa'd b. 'Ubada (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:We went along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and as we reached the place Dhat-ur-Riqa'; the rest of the hadith is the same, but there is no mention of the word that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not harm him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The similitude of mine and that of my Umma is that of a person who lit fire and there began to fall into it insects and moths. And I am there to hold you back, but you plunge into it (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith was likewise narrated with another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The similitude of mine and that of the Apostles; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jundab reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: I shall be there at the Cistern before you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jundab through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Salama reported that she heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saying this as he was sitting on the pulpit and she was getting her hair combed. (He uttered these words):" O people." And she said to one who was combing: Leave my head; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
The hadith has been narrated on the authority ot al-A'mash with the same chain of transmitters but no mention is made of:" They are my companions; they are my companions (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hudhaifa through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Haritha b. Wahb al-Khuza'i reported Allah's Messeiiger's (ﷺ) words concerning the Cistern like it, but he made no mention of the words of Mustaurid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is before you a Cistern and the distance between its two sides is as it is between Jarba' and Adhruh (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn 'Umar and the words are:That he said there would be before you a Cistern extending from jarba' and Adhruh and the same has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Muthanna and the wording is:" My Cistern (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There would be before you a Cistern (as extensive) as there is the distance between Jarba' and Adhruh and there would be jugs like stars in the sky; he who would come to that and drink from it would never feel thirsty after that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Thaubin reported this hadith pertaining to the Cistern. Muhammad b. Bashshar said:I said to Yahya b. Hammad: This is the hadith that I heard from Abu 'Awana and he said: I also heard it from Shu'ba. I said: Narrate that to me and he narrated that to me (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:I will drive away from my Cistern people just as the stray camels are driven away (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain ot transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa`d reported that on the Day of Uhud I saw on the right side of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and on his left side two persons dressed in white clothes and whom I did not see before nor after that, and they were Gabriel and Michael (Allah be pleased with both of them) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd b. Abu Waqqas reported:I saw on the right side of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and on his left side two persons with white clothes on the Day of Uhtid fighting a desperate fight, and I saw them neither before nor after that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that there was consternation in Medina. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) borrowed the horse from Abu Talha which was called Mandub. He rode it and said:We have found no reason for consternation, and we have found it to be (as quick as a torrent) of water (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Anas with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I served the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for nine years, and I do not know (of any instance) when he said to me: Why you have done this and that, and he never found fault with me in anything (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was the best amongst people in disposition and behaviour (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:It never happened that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked for anything and he said: No (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir b. 'Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported:When Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) died, there came to Abfi Bakr wealth from al-'Ala' b. al-Hadrami. Abu Bakr said: He to whom Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) owed any debt or held out any promise should come to us; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that al-Aqra' b. Habis saw Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) kissing Hasan. He said:I have ten children, but I have never kissed any one of them, whereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: He who does not show mercy (towards his children), no mercy would be shown to him (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has likewise been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jarir b. 'Abdullah through different chains of transmitters and the words are:" That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: He who shows no mercy to the people, Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, does not show mercy to him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jarir through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was more modest than the virgin behind the curtain (or in the apartment), and when he disliked anything, we recognised that from his face (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith had been narrated on the authority of al-A'mash through another chain of transmitters also (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported this hadith through another chain of transmitters, but he made no mention of a camel-driver having a melodious voice (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Umm Sulaim was with the wives of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and a camel-driver had been driving (the camels) oil which they were riding. Thereupon Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:Anjasha, drive slowly, for you are carrying (on the camels) vessels of glass (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had a camel-driver who had a very melodious voice. Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him:Anjasha, drive slowly; do not break the vessels of glass, meaning the weak women (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:I saw when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got his hair cut by the barber, his Companions came round him and they eagerly wanted that no hair should fall but in the hand of a person (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been narrated through several other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shibab through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:I never smelt ambergris or musk as fragrant as the fragrance of the body of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and I never touched brocade or silk and found it as soft as the body of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:When revelation descended upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) even during the cold days, his forehead perspired (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubida b. Samit reported that when wahi (inspiration) descended upon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), he felt a burden on that account and the colour of his face underwent a change (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubida b. Samit reported that when wahi descended upon Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), he lowered his head and so lowered his Companions their heads, and when (this state) was over, he raised his head (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was of medium height, having broad shoulders, with his hair hanging down on the lobes of his ears. He put on a red mantle over him, and never have I seen anyone more handsome than Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' reported:Never did I see anyone more handsome than Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) in the red mantle. His hair had been hanging down on the shoulders and his shoulders were very broad, and he was neither very tall nor short-statured. Ibn Kuraib said he had hair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had the most handsome face amongst men and he had the best disposition and he was neither very tall nor short-statured (from eng-muslim.txt)
Qatada reported:I asked Anas b. Malik: How was the hair of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? Thereupon he said: His hair was neither very curly nor very straight, and they hung over his shoulders and earlobes (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the hair of Allah's Messenger (may. peace be upon him) came upon his shoulders (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the hair of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) reached half of the earlobe (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jurairi reported:I said to Abu Tufail: Did you see Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? He said: Yes, he had a white handsome face. Muslim b. Hajjaj said: Abu Tufail who died in 100 Hijra was the last of the Companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Tufail reported:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and there is one amongst the people of the earth who (are living at the present time and) had seen him except me. I said to him: How did you find him? He said: He had an elegant white color, and he was of an average height (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Sirin reported:Anas b. Malik was asked whether Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) dyed his hair. He said: He had not become old enough to have white hair. Ibn Idris said that he had a few white hair. Abu Bakr and Umar, however, dyed hair with hina' (henna) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Muhammad b. Sirin reported:I asked Anas b. Malik whether Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) dyed his hair. He said: He had but little white hair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik did not like that a person should pick out his white hair from his head or beard, and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not dye, and there was some whiteness in his hair at his chin, on his temples and very little on his head (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Muthanna through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas (b. Malik) was asked about the old age of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ). He said:Allah did not blemish him with white hair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Juhaifa reported:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having some whiteness (in hair) at this place, and Zuhair placed one of his fingers at his chin. Juhaifa was asked how old he had been at that time. He said: I made arrows and put feathers to them (i. e. I had passed my childhood) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Juhaifa reported:I saw Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that he had white complexion and had some white hair, and Hasan b. 'Ali resembled him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Juhaifa with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Samura was asked about the old age of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ). He said:When he oiled his head nothing was seen (as a mark of old age) and when he did not apply oil something (of the old age) became visible (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir. Samura reported:I saw the seal on his back as if it were a pigeon's egg (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Simak with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Anas b. Malik with this addition that instead of the word al-Amhaq there is the word Azhar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died when he was sixty-three years old, and so was the case with Abu Bakr, and so was the case with Umar who was also sixty-three (when he died) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died when he had attained the age of sixty-three. And a hadith like this had been transmitted on the authority of Sa'id b. Musayyib (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab through the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr reported:I said to 'Urwa: How long did Allah's Apostle - (ﷺ) stay in Mecca? He said: For ten years. I said: Ibn 'Abbas says (that he stayed in Mecca) for thirteen years (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr reported:I said to 'Urwa: How long did Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) stay in Mecca? He said: For ten years. I said: Ibn Abbas says it is some years above ten. He ('Urwa) sought forgiveness for him and said: His statement is based on the verse of a poet (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stayed in Mecca for thirteen years and he died when he had attained the age of sixty three years (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stayed in Mecca for thirteen years (after he had received revelation) and stayed in Medina for ten years, and he was sixty-three when he died (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that he heard Mu'awiya say in his address that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died at the age of sixty-three, so was the case with Abu Bakr and 'Umar, and I (am now) sixty-three (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yunus with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ammar, the freed slave of Banu Hashim, reported that Ibn 'Abbas said that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died when he had attained the age of sixty-five (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Khalid with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa Ash'ari reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mentioned many names of his and said:I am Muhammad, Ahmad. Muqaffi (the last in succession), Hashir, the Prophet of repentance, and the Prophet of Mercy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters and with this addition:" A person asked about a thing from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and he indulged in hair-splitting (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that a person said:Allah's Messenger, who is my father? And he said: Your father is so and so, and there was revealed this verse:" Do not ask about matters which, if they were to be made manifest to you, might cause you harm" (v) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Qatada (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I am most akin to the son of Mary among the whole of mankind and the Prophets are of different mothers, but of one religion, and no Prophet was raised between me and him (Jesus Christ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I am most akin to Jesus Christ among the whole of mankind, and all the Prophets are of different mothers but belong to one religion and no Prophet was raised between me and Jesus (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The satan touches every son of Adam on the day when his mother gives birth to him with the exception of Mary and her son (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The crying of the child (starts) when the satan begins to prick him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that a person came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said:O, the best of creation; thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: He is Ibrahim (peace be upon him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported a hadith like this from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as having said that Ibrahim (as) circumcised himself with the help of an adze when he was eighty years old (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ma'mar (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Salama with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A person from amongst the Muslims and a person from amongst the Jews fell into dispute and reviled each other. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Kudari reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having, said this:Don't make distinction amongst the Apostles. This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters also (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I came. And in the narration transmitted on the authority of Haddib (the words are): I happened to pass by Moses on the occasion of the Night journey near the red mound (and found him) saying his prayer in his grave (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I happened to pass by Moses as he was busy in saying prayer in his grave, and in the hadith transmitted on the authority of 'Isa there is an addition of these words:, I happened to pass on the occasion of the Night journey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (may prace be upon him) as saying that Allah, the Exalted and Majestic, said:It is not meet for a servant of Mine that he should say: I am better than Yunus b. Matta (peace be upon him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu al-Aliya said:The son of the uncle of your Prophet (ﷺ), i. e. Ibn Abbas, reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: It is not meet for a servant that he should say: I am better than Yunus b. Matta (and this Matta) is the name of his father (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Zakariyya (peace be upon him) was a carpenter (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa, id b. jubair reported that it was said to Ibn 'Abbas that Nauf al-Bikali was of the opinion that Moses who went in search of knowledge was not the Moses of Bani Isra'il. He said:Sa'id, did you hear it from him? I said: Yes. Thereupon he said that Nauf had not stated the fact (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Ishaq (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas has reported this hadith on the authority of Ubayy b. ka'b that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) used to recite this (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Sa'id Khudri through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If I were to choose from my Umma anyone as my bosom friend, I would have chosen Abu Bakr (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If I were to choose as my bosom friend I would have chosen the son of Abu Quhafa (Abu Bakr) as my bosom friend (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If I were to choose amongst the people of earth someone as my bosom friend, I would have chosen the son of Abu Quhafa as my friends but God has taken your companion as a friend (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters, but there is no mention of the story pertaining to the ox (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri, and there is a clear mention of the stories of ox and goat (and the words are):I believe in it and so do Abu Bakr and Umar, but they were not at that time present there (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transrritters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Umar b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yunus with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yunus through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I saw Ibn Abu Quhafa drawing (water) ; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salim b. 'Abdullah reported on the authority of his father some of the dreams of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) pertaining to Abu Bakr and Umar b. Khattab (Allah be pleased with them) and a hadith like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There had been among the people before you inspired persons and if there were any such among my Umma Umar b. Khattab would be one of them. Ibn Wahb explained the word Muhaddathun as those who receive hint from the High (Mulhamun) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sa'd b. Ibrahim with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Umar as saying:My lord concorded with (my judgments) on three occasions. In case of the Station of Ibrahim, in case of the observance of veil and in case of the prisoners of Badr (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubaidullah with the same chain of transmitter but with the addition of the words:" He abandoned saying prayer over the hypocrites who had died (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Uthman and A'isha with the same wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Musa al-Ash'ari with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying to 'Ali:Aren't you satisfied with being unto me what Aaron was unto Moses? (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zaid b. Arqam through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Hayyan but with this addition:" The Book of Allah contains right guidance, the light, and whoever adheres to it and holds it fast, he is upon right guidance and whosoever deviates from it goes astray (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Amir b. Rabi reported A'isha as saying:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went to bed one night; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Shaddad reported that he heard `Ali saying:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) did not gather his parents except in case of Sa`d b. Malik that he said to him on the Day of Uhud: Shoot an arrow, may my father and mother be taken as ransom for you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ali through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sa'd b Abi Waqqqs said:Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) gathered his parents for me on the Day of Uhud (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yabyl b. Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu 'Uthman reported on one of the days when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was fighting and none remained with him save Talha and Sa'd (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported this hadith through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Zubair reported:When it was the Day of the Battle of the Ditch I and 'Umar b. Salama were in the fort in which there were women, i. e. the wives of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) ; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hisham reported on the authority of his father ('Urwa b. Zubair) that A'isha said:BY Allah, both fathers of yours are amongst those who have been men. tioned in this verse:" Those who responded to the call of Allah and the Messenger after the misfortune had fallen upon thein (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hishan through the same chain of transmitters but with this addition (that by both fathers of yours) he meant Abu Bakr and Zubair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa reported:'Aisha said to me: Your fathers (Zubair and Abu Bakr) were amongst those about whom (it has been revealed):" Those who responded to the call of Allah and His Messenger after the misfortune had fallen upon them (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:For every Umma there is a man of trust and the man of trust of this Umma is Abu 'Ubaida b. Jarrah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the people of Yemen came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and said:Send with us a person who should teach us Sunnah and al-Islam, whereupon he (the Holy Prophet) caught hold of the hand of Ubaida and said: He is a man of trust of this Umma (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu Ishaq with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying to Hasan:O Allah, behold, I love him. Thou too love him and love one who loves him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' b. Azib reported:I saw Hasan b. 'Ali upon the shoulders of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and he was saying: O Allah, I love him, and love him Thou (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' b. Azib reported:I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with Al-Hasan b. 'Ali placed upon his shoulders and he was saying: O Allah, I love him, and love him Thou (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority 'Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Abu Mulaika reported that Abdullah b. Jafar said to Ibn Zubair:Do you remember (the occasion) when we three (i. e. I, you and lbn 'Abbas) met Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he mounted us (on his camel) but left you? He said: Yes (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Habib b. Ash-Shahid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Ja'a'far reported that when Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came back from a journey he met us. Once he met me, Hasan or Husain, and he mounted one of us before him and the other one behind him until we entered Medina (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Ja'far reported that one day Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) mounted me behind him and narrated to me something in secret which I would narrate to none amongst people (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ismail reported:I said to 'Abdullah b. Abi Aufa: Did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) give glad tidings of Paradise to Khadija? He said: Yes. He did give glad tidings to her of a palace of jewels in Paradise wherein there would be no noise and no toil (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the a tliority of Ibn Abi Aufa through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) gave glad tidings to Khadija bint Khuwailid of a palace in Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Usama up to the slaughtering of a sheep, but he. did not make mention of the subsequent words (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Never did I feel jealous of any wife amongst the wives of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as I feel in case of Khadija (though I had never seen her), for he praised her very often (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) did not marry any other woman till her (Khadija's) death (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Hishim b. 'Urwa with the same chain of transmitters up to the words:" No, by the Lord of Ibrahim," and he did not make mention of what follows subsequently (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that she used to play with dolls in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and when her playmates came to her they left (the house) because they felt shy of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), whereas Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sent them to her (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that people sent their gifts when it was the turn of 'A'isha seeking thereby the pleasure of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) at the time of breathing his last was reclining against her chest and she was leaning over him and listening to him as he was saying:O Allah, grant me pardon, show mercy to me, enjoin me to companions (on High) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sa'd with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The excellence of 'A'isha over women is like the excellence of Tharid over all other foods (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to her:Gabriel offered you greetings and I said: So there should be peace and mercy of Allah upon him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zakriyya' through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:'A'isha, here is Gabriel offering you greetings. She said: 1 made a reply: Let there be peace and blessings of Allah upon him, and added: He sees what I do not see (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Hisham b. 'Urwa but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Miswar b. Makhramah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Fatima is a part of me. He in fact tortures me who tortures her (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) did not enter the house of any woman except that of his wives and that of Umm Sulaim. He used to visit her. It was said to him why it was so, whereupon he said:I feel great compassion for her. Her brother was killed while he was with me (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:I entered Paradise and heard the noise of steps. I said: Who is it? They said: She is Ghumaisa, daughter of Milhan, the mother of Anas b. Malik (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:I was shown Paradise and I saw the wife of Abu Talha (i.e. Umm Sulaim) and I heard the noise of steps before me and, lo, it was that of Bilal (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported:When I and my brother came from Yemen we used to consider Ibn Mas'ud and his mother amongst the members of the household. of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) because of their visiting them frequently and staying there for long (periods of) time (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith is narrated likewise through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa. reported:I came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and thought that 'Abdullah was amongst the members of the family, or like that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Wahab reported:I was sitting along with Hudhaifa and Abu Musa, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This tradition has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba through A'mash, but there is a difference of order of the four (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubaidullah b. Mu'adh reported it on the authority of his father Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters and he made this addition. He made a mention of these two names but I do not know whose name he mentioned first (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas is reported to have said:Four persons collected the Qur'an during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and all of them were Ansar: Mu'adh b. Jabal, Ubayy b. Ka'b, Zaid b. Thabit, Abu Zaid. Qatada said: Anas, who was Abu Zaid? He said: He was one of my uncles (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hammam said:I said to Anas b. Malik: Who collected the Qur'an during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ)? He said: Four (persons), all of them belonging to Ansir: Ubayy b. Ka'b, Mu'adh b. Jabal, Zaid b. Thabit and a person from the Ansar whose Kunya was Abu Zaid (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying while the bier of Sa'd b. Mu'adh was placed before them:The Throne of the most Gracious shook at the death of Sa'd b. Mu'adh (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that the Throne of the most Compassionate shook because of the death of Sa'd b. Mu'adh (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as say- ing:That his bier (that of Sa'd) was placed (before them) and the Throne of the most Compassionate shook (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' reported that a garment of silk was presented to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). His Companions touched it and admired its softness; there- upon he said:Do you admire the softness of this (cloth)? The handkerchiefs of Sa'd b. Mu'adh in Paradise are better than this (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Shu'ba combining the two chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was presented a garment of sundus and he prohibited the use of silk. The persons admired it, whereupon he said:By Him in Whose Hand is the life of Muhammad, the kerchiefs of Sa'd b. Mu'adh in Paradise are better than this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported the king of Dumat al-Jandal presented to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the garment and lie made no mention (of the fact) that he prohibited the use of silk (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir through another chain of transmitters, but with this difference that there is no mention of the Angels and the weeping of a female mourner (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:My father was brought in a state that his ears had been cut off and (his dead body) was placed before Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadlth has been narrated on the authority of Humaid b. Hilal with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:" As I came to Mecca, Unais said: (Well), go but be on your guard against the Meccans for they are his enemies and are annoyed with him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir b. 'Abdullah said:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) never refused me permission to see him since I embraced Islam and never looked at me but with a smile (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported:I used to spend nights in the mosque and by that time I had no wife and children. I saw in a dream as if I am being taken to a well. I made a mention of it to Allah's Messenger (may peacebe upon him). The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported (that his mother) Umm Sulaim said (to the Holy Prophet) Allah's Messenger, here is your servant Anas. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) told me something secretly. I informed none about that and Umm Sulaim asked me about it, but I did not tell her even (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amir b. Sa'd reported that he heard his father (Sa'd b. Abi Waqqas) say:never heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say unto one living and moving about that he was in Paradise except to 'Abdullah b. Salim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Musayyib reported that Hassan said to a circle in which there was also Abu Huraira:Abu Huraira, I adjure you by Allah (to tell) whether you-had not heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying like this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bari' b. 'Azib reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Hassan b. Thibit, write satire (against the non-believers) ; Gabriel is with you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hisham reported on the authority of his father that Hassan b. Thabit talked much about 'A'isha. I scolded him, whereupon she said:My nephew, leave him for he defended Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hishim with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa reported on the same chain of transmitters that Hassan b. Thabit sought permission from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) to satirise against the polytheists, but he did not mention Abu Sufyan. And instead of the word al- Khamir, the word al-'Ajin was used (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that a slave of Hatib came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) complaining against Hatib and said:Hatib will definitely go to Hell. (But) Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: You tell a lie; he would not get into that for he had taken part in Badr and in (the expedition of) Hudaibiya (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Arqam reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:O Allah,, grant forgiveness to the Ansar, the offspring of the Ansar and the offspring of the offspring of the Ansar. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shulba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Zaid b. Arqam reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:O Allah,, grant forgiveness to the Ansar, the offspring of the Ansar and the offspring of the offspring of the Ansar. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shulba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) sought forgiveness for the Ansar and he said:I think (he also sought forgiveness) for the children of the Ansar and the slaves and the freed men of the Ansar. I have no doubt about it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that a woman from the Ansar came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stood aside with her and said:By Him in Whose Hand is my life, you are dearest to me amongst the people. He repeated it thrice (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Usaid Ansari has reported this hadith through another chain of transmitters. When the Prophet (ﷺ) was marching towards Badr in order (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported a hadith like this from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) but he has made no mention in the hadith of the words of Sa'd (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Usaid Ansari reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The worthiest of the Ansar or the worthiest of the settlements and the clans of Ansar; the rest of the hadith is the same, but there is no mention of the story of Sa'd b. 'Ubida (Allah be pleased with him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Go to your people and say that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) says: Ghifar (is a tribe) to whom Allah granted pardon, and Aslam (is the tribe) to whom Allah granted safety (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:To the tribe of Aslam Allah has granted safety and to the tribe of Ghifar Allah has granted pardon (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through other chains of transmitters on the authority of Jabir and Abu Huraira that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:To the tribe of Aslam Allah has granted safety and to the tribe of Ghifar Allah has granted pardon (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:To the tribe of Aslam Allah has granted safety and to the tribe of Ghifar Allah has granted pardon. Verily it is not I that say this, but (it is) Allah the Exalted and Glorious. (who) says this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah has granted pardon to the tribe of Ghifar and to the tribe of Aslam Allah has granted safety and as for Usayya tribe, they disobeyed Allah and His Messenger (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Umar with a slight variation of wording (and the wording) that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said this on the pulpit (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn Umar but through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ayyub reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The tribes of Ansar, Muzaina and Juhaina and Ghifar and Ashja' and those from Banu 'Abdullah, they are my friends amongst the people and Allah and His Messenger are their protectors (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Quraish, Ansar, Muzaina, Juhaina and Ghifar, they are my friends and there is no friend of theirs besides Allah and His Messenger (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Sa'd b. Ibrahim with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The tribes of Ashja', Ghifar and Muzaina and from the tribe of Juhaina they are better than Banu Tamim, Banu Amir and the allies of Asad and Ghatfan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Aslam, Ghifar or some people from Muzaina, Juhaina (with the variation of words) are better in the eye of Allah than Asad, Ghatfan, Hawizin and Tamim. The narrator said: I think he also said:" On the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Ya'qub Dabbi with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakra reported from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that Aslam, Ghifar, Muzaina and Juhaina are better than Banu Tamim, Banu Amir and their allies Banu Asad and Ghatfan (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu Bishr with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Adi b. Hatim reported:I came to Umar b. Khattab and he said to me: The first consignment of Sadaqa brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) which brightened the face of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and the faces of his Companions was that of Tayyi (from eng-muslim.txt)
empty (from eng-muslim.txt)
The other hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted through other chains of transmitters. The chain of of Abu Zur'a has a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira with a slight variation of wording and there is no word" orphan (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The best women who ride the camels are the pious women of the Quraish; they treat with affection children in their childhood and keep a strict watch on the wealth of their spouses (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu Huraira with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) established fraternity between Abu Ubaida b. Jarrah and Abu Talha (from eng-muslim.txt)
It was said to Anas b. Malik:You must have heard this that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: There is no alliance (hilf) of brotherhood in Islam. Anas said: Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) established the bond of fraternity between the Quraish and the Ansar in his home (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) established fraternity between the Quraish and the Ansar in his house at Medina (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jubair b. Mut'im reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is no alliance (hilf) in Islam but (the hilf) established in the pre-Islamic days (for good). Islam intensifies and strengthens it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Mansur on the authority of Abu al-Ahwas and Jarir with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (but with this variation) that Abu Huraira said:I do not know whether he (the Holy Prophet) said (these words:" Then next" ) twice or thrice (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Zuhri on the authority of Ma'mar (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Juraij with the same chain of transmitters, but there is no mention of the words:" one month before his death (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Sulaiman Taimi through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported that when Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) came back from Tabuk they (his Companions) asked about the Last Hour. Thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:There would be none amongst the created beings living on the earth (who would survive this century) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:None amongst the created beings (from my Companions) would survive after one hundred years. Salim said: We made a mention of it to him (Jabir), whereupon he said: It means those who had been living on that day (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of al-A'mash and there is no mention by Shu'ba and Waki' of 'Abd al-Rahman b. Auf and Khalid (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umar b. Khattab reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Worthy amongst the successors would be a person who would be called Uwais. He would have his mother (living with him) and he would have (a small) sign of leprosy. Ask him to beg pardon for you (from Allah) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If the din were at the Pleiades, even then a person from Persia would have taken hold of it, or one amongst the Persian descent would have surely found it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:You would find people like one hundred camels and you would not find even one (camel) fit for riding (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that a person said:Allah's Messenger, who amongst the people is most deserving of my good treatment? He said: Your mother, again your mother, again your mother, then your father, then your nearest relatives according to the order (of nearness) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:A person came to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ). The rest of the hadith is the same as transmitted by jarir but with this addition: By your father, you would get the information (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Habib with the several chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Habib with the several chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Let him be humbled into dust; let him be humbled into dust. It was said: Allah's Messenger, who is he? He said: He who sees either of his parents during their old age or he sees both of them, but he does not enter Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Let him be humbled, let him be humbled. It was said: Allah's Messenger, who is he? He said. He who finds his parents in old age, either one or both of them, and does not enter Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Let him be humbled thrice, and the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The finest act of goodness is that a person should treat kindly the loved ones of his father (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nawwas b. Sam'an al-Ansari reported:I asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about virtue and vice. He said: Virtue is a kind disposition and vice is what rankles in your heart and that you disapprove that people should come to know of it (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The tie of kinship is suspended to the Throne and says: He who unites me Allah would unite him and he who severed me Allah would sever him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jubair b. Mut'im reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The severer would not enter Paradise. Ibn Umar said that Sufyan (explained it as): One who severs the tie of kinship would not enter Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jubair b. Mutlim reported that his father narrated to him that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The severer of the tie of kinship would not get into Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: He who is desirous that his means of sustenance should be expanded for him or his age may be lengthened, should join the tie of relationship (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:He who likes that his sustenance should be expanded and his age may be lengthened should join the tie of kinship (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Neither nurse mutual hatred, nor jealousy, nor enmity, and become as fellow brothers and servants of Allah. It is not lawful for a Muslim that he should keep his relations estranged with his brother beyond three days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying like this. This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters with the addition of Ibn Uyaina (and the words are):" Do not cut off (mutual relations) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri with a slight variation of wording (and the words are):" The one turning away and the other turning away when they meet and one avoids the other and the other also avoids him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is not permissible for a Muslim to have estranged relations with his brother beyond three days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There should be no estranged relations beyond three days (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Don't have estranged relations (with the others) and don't nurse enmity and don't enter into a transaction when the other (has already entered) and be fellow-brothers and servants of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Don't bear aversion against one another and don't be jealous of one another and be servants of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira with some addition (and it is this):" Verily Allah does not look to your bodies nor to your faces but He looks to your hearts," and he pointed towards the heart with his fingers (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Verily Allah does not look to your faces and your wealth but He looks to your heart and to your deeds (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Verily. Allah would say on the Day of Resurrection: Where are those who have mutual love for My Glory's sake? Today I shall shelter them in My shadow when there is no other shadow but the shadow of Mine (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hammid b. Salama with the same of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Rabi' reported directly from Allah's Apostle (may peace upon him) as saying:The one who visits the sick is in fact like one who is in the fruit garden of Paradise so long as he does not return (from eng-muslim.txt)
Thauban, the freed slave of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:He who visits the sick continues to remain in the fruit garden of Paradise until he returns (from eng-muslim.txt)
Thauban reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Verily, when a Muslim visits his brother in Islam he is supposed to remain in the fruit garden of Paradise until he returns (from eng-muslim.txt)
Thauban, the freed slave of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who visits the sick is supposed to remain in the fruit garden of Paradise. It was said: Allah's Messenger, what is this Khurfat-ul-jannah? He said: It is a place abounding in fruits (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Asim al-Ahwal with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported, I did not see anyone else being afflicted with more severe illness than Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). In the narration transmitted by 'Uthman there is a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of jarir and the hadith transmitted on the authority of Abu Mu'awiya there is an addition of these words:He said: Yes, by Him in Whose Hand is my life, there is no Muslim upon the earth." The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A believer does not receive (the trouble) of running a thorn or more than that but Allah elevates him in rank or effaces his sins because of that (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A believer does not undergo (the trouble) of running a thorn or more than that when Allah effaces his sins (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith has been transmitted by Hisham with the same chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: There is no trouble that comes to a believer except that it obliterates from his sins, even if it is the pricking of a thorn (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha said:No trouble comes to a believer even if it is the pricking of a thorn that it becomes (the means) whereby his sins are effaced or his sins are obliterated. Yazid says: He does not know which word 'Urwa said (whether he said Qussa or Kuffira) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: There is nothing (in the form of trouble) that comes to a believer even if it is the pricking of a thorn that there is decreed for him by Allah good or his sins are obliterated (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id and abu Huraira reported that they heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Never a believer is stricken with discomfort, hardship or illness, grief or even with mental worry that his sins are not expiated for him (from eng-muslim.txt)
The hadith is narrated through Abu Mushir from Sa'id bin 'Abdil'Aziz except that the previous hadith through Marwan was the more complete of the two (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is also transmitted through Ibna Bashr and Muhammad bin Muhammad through Abu Mashur through the same chain, narrated to its (full) extent (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that he reported it from his Lord, the Exalted and Glorious:Verily I have made oppression unlawful for Me and for My servants too, so do not commit oppression. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibu 'Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Oppression is the darkness on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:“Rights will certainly be restored to those entitled to them on the Day of Resurrection, (to the point that) even the hornless sheep will lay claim upon the horned one.” (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A believer is like a brick for another believer, the one supporting the other (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Bashir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The similitude of believers in regard to mutual love, affection, fellow-feeling is that of one body; when any limb of it aches, the whole body aches, because of sleeplessness and fever (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Bashir reported a hadith like this from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Bashir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The believers are like one person; if his head aches, the whole body aches with fever and sleeplessness (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nu'man b. Bashir reported that Muslims are like one body of a person; if the eye is sore, the whole body aches, and if the head aches, the whole body aches (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Nu'man b. Bashir through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When two persons indulge in hurling (abuses) upon one another, it would be the first one who would be the sinner so long as the oppressed does not transgress the limits (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Charity does not decrease wealth, no one forgives another except that Allah increases his honor, and no one humbles himself for the sake of Allah except that Allah raises his status (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The servant (whose fault) Allah conceals in this world, Allah would also conceal (his faults) on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The servant (who conceals) the faults of others in this world, Allah would conceal his faults on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Ibn Munkadir with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir reported from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ):He who is deprived of tenderly feelings is in fact deprived of good (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who is deprived of tenderly feelings is in fact deprived of good (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who is deprived of tenderly feelings is in fact deprived of good and he who is deprived of tenderly feelings is in fact deprived of good (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:'A'isha, verily Allah is kind and He loves kindness and confers upon kindness which he does not confer upon severity and does not confer upon anything else besides it (kindness) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha, the wife of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ), reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Kindness is not to be found in anything but that it adds to its beauty and it is not withdrawn from anything but it makes it defective (from eng-muslim.txt)
Imran reported:I perceive as if I am looking towards that dromedary, and in the hadith transmitted on the authority of Thaqafi (the words are):" Unload it and make its back bare for it is accursed (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sulaiman Taimi with the same chain of transmitters but with a variation of words (and that is):" By Allah, let that accompany us not which has been damned, or he said like it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It does not seem proper for a Siddiq that he should be an invoker of curse (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Kuraib with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zaid b. Aslam with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Darda' reported on the authority of Abu Darda' as saying:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: The invoker of curse would neither be witness nor intercessor on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported it was said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ):Invoke curse upon the polytheists, whereupon he said: I have not been sent as the invoker of curse, but I have been sent as mercy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters and the hadith transmitted on the authority of 'Isa (the words are):" He had a private meeting with them and hurled malediction upon them and cursed them and sent them out (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:O Allah, I am a human being and for any person amongst Muslims upon whom I hurl malediction or invoke curse or give him whipping make it a source of purity and mercy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) a hadith like it but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of A'mash and in the hadith transmitted on the authority of 'Isa the words are:Make it a source of reward, and in the hadith transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira (the words are):" Make it a source of mercy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Zinad with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been reported on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:O Allah, for any believing servant whom I curse make that as a source of nearness to Thee on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I have held covenant with Thee which Thou wouldst not break, so for any believer whom I curse or beat, make that an expiation on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn Abbas with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The worst amongst the people is the double-faced one; he comes to some people with one face and to others with the other face (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The worst amongst people is one with the double face. He comes to some people with one face and to others with the other face (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:You will find the worst amongst the people one having double face. He comes to some people with one face and to the others with the other face (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Shihab with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Zuhri with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The strong-man is not one who wrestles well but the strong man is one who controls himself when he is in a fit of rage (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: One is not strong because of one's wrestling skillfully. They said: Allah's Messenger, then who is strong? He said: He who controls his anger when he is in a fit of rage (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Humaid with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you fights with his brother he should avoid striking at the face (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Zinad and he said:" When one amongst you strikes (at the face) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you fights with his brother, he should spare his face (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you fights with his brother, he should not slap at the face (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira and in the hadith transmitted on the authority of Ibn Hatim Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) is reported to have said:When any one of you fights with his brother, he should avoid his face for Allah created Adam in His own image (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When any one of you fights with his brother, he should avoid the face (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amr heard Jabir as saying:A person happened to come to the mosque with an arrow; thereupon Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to him: Take hold of its pointed head (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported that a person happened to come to the mosque with arrows and their iron-ends were exposed, so he was commanded that he should grasp the pointed heads so that these might not do any harm to a Muslim (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded a person who had been distributing arrows freely in the mosque that he should not move about in the mosque but by catching hold of their iron-heads. Ibn Rumh narrated this with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported a hadith like this from Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:While a person was going along the path he found a thorny branch upon it. He pushed it to a side and Allah approved (this action) of his and (as a mark of appreciation) granted him pardon (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A person while walking along the path saw the branches of a tree lying there. He said: By Allah, I shall remove these from this so that these may not do harm to the Muslims, and he was admitted to Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that he saw a person enjoying himself in Paradise because of the tree that he cut from the path which was a source of inconvenience to the people (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that there was a tree which caused inconvenience to the Muslims; a person came there and cut that (tree) (and thus entered ) Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Barza reported:I said: Allah's Messenger, teach me something so that I may derive benefit from it. He said: Remove the troublesome thing from the paths of the Muslims (from eng-muslim.txt)
The above hadith is narrated through another chain of transmitters with the same meaning (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id Khudri and Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, said: Glory is His lower garment and Majesty is His cloak and (Allah says, ) He who contends with Me in regard to them I shall torment him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When a person says that people are ruined he is himself ruined. Abu Ishaq said: I do not know whether he said" ahlakahum or ahlakuhum (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Suhail with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Gabriel impressed upon me (kind treatment) towards the neighbour (so much) that I thought as if he would confer upon him the (right) of inheritance (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'A'isha through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Gabriel impressed upon me (the kind treatment) towards the neighbour (so much) that I thought as if he would soon confer upon him the (right) of inheritance (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Abu Dharr, when you prepare the broth, add water to that and give that (as a present) to your neighbour (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded me thus:Whenever you prepare a broth, add water to it, and have in your mind the members of the household of your neighbours and then give them out of this with courtesy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported:Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said to me: Don't consider anything insignificant out of good things even if it is that you meet your brother with a cheerful countenance (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported that when any needy (person) came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) with a need he commanded him to his Companions, saying:Make a recommendation for him, and you would get the reward. Allah, however, gives the verdict through the tongue of His Apostle what He likes most (from eng-muslim.txt)
Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He, who brought up two girls properly till they grew up, he and I would come (together) (very closely) on the Day of Resurrection, and he interlaced his fingers (for explaining the point of nearness between him and that person) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Anyone amongst the Muslims, three of whose children die, and he resigns himself calmly to the will of God, Fire will not touch him but for the fulfilment of the oath (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by Zuhri on the authority of Malik, and in the hadith transmitted on the authority of Sufyan (the words are):" He would enter into Fire, except for the fulfilment of the oath (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that he (the Holy Prophet) said:Three (children) who die in childhood (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Suhail with the same chain of transmitters except with this variation that in the hadith transmitted on the authority of 'Ali' b. Musayyib, there is no mention of (the word)" Anger (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) this hadith through another chain of transmitters but he did not make mention of the words of Anas:I love, and what follows subsequently (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Anas with different chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of 'Abdullah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa, reported that a person came to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) ; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported:It was said to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ): What is your opinion about the person who has done good deeds and the people praise him? He said: It is glad tidings for a believer (which he has received in this mortal world) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through another chain of transmitters also and the one transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba (the words are):" People love him." In the hadith transmitted on the authority of 'Abd-us-Samad (the words are):" People praise him as stated by Hammad (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Mas'ud through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mansur with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ali through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Jabir b. Abdullah with the same wording (and includes these words):" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: Every doer of deed is facilitated in his action (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through other chains of transmiters with slight variations of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira narrated a hadith like this through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported a hadith like this through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. 'Amr b. al-'As reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Allah ordained the measures (of quality) of the creation fifty thousand years before He created the heavens and the earth, as His Throne was upon water (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Hani with the same chain of transmitters, but there is no mention of" His Throne was upon water (from eng-muslim.txt)
Tawus reported:I found some Companions of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: Everything is by measure. And he further said: I heard Abdullah b. 'Umar as saying: There is a neasure for everything-even for incapacity and-capability (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters and there is no mention of his deficiency in limbs (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:No child is born but upon Fitra. He then said. Recite: The nature made by Allah in which He created man, there is no altering of Allah's nature; that is the right religion (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about the children of the polytheists, whereupon he said:It is Allah Who knows best what they would be doing (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'aib and Ma'qil with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allahs Messenger (way peace be upon him) was asked about the children of the polytheists who die young. Thereupon Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:It is Allah Who knows what they would be doing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked about the children of the polytheists, whereupon he said:It is Allah alone Who knows what they would be doing according to their creation (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubayy b. Ka'b reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The young man whom Khadir killed was a non-believer by his very nature and had he survived he would have involved his parents in defiance and unbelief (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Yahya with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jundub b. 'Abdullah al-Bajali reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Recite the Qur'an as long as your hearts agree to do so, and when you feel variance between them (between your hearts and tongues), then get up (and leave its recital for the time being) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jundub (i. e. Ibn 'Abdullah) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Recite the Qur'an as long as your hearts agree to do so and when you find variance between them, then stand up (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Imran reported that Jundub told us as we we-re young boys living in Kilfa, that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) had said:Recite the Qur'an. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The most despicable amongst persons in the eye of Allah is one who tries to fall into dispute with others (for nothing but only to display his knowledge and power of argumentation) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported through Muhammad bin Muttarif from Zayd bin Aslam with the same chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ata' b. Yasir through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Ruined, were those who indulged in hair-splitting. He (the Holy Prophet) repeated this thrice (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It is from the conditions of the Last Hour that knowledge would be taken away and ignorance would prevail (upon the world), the liquor would be drunk, and adultery would become rampant (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of narrators, but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Wa'il reported:I was sitting with 'Abdullah and Abu Musa that they reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said: Prior to the Last Hour, there would be a time when knowledge would be taken away, and ignorance would take its place and there would be bloodshed on a large scale (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah (b. Mas'ud) and Abu Musa (al-Asha'ri) through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of Abu Musa through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Wa'il reported:I was sitting with Abu Musa and 'Abdullah and they were conversing with each other and Abu Musa reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying (that we find in the above-mentioned ahadith) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira through other chains of narrators and there is no mention of:" Miserliness would be put (in the hearts of the people) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah b. Amr b. al-'As through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) delivered an address in which he exhorted people to give charity (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir b. 'Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The servant does not introduce good practice which is followed after him.... The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jarir transmitted this hadith from his father through several other chains of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters, but there is no mention of these words:" He draws near Me by the space of a hand, I draw near him by the space (covered) by two hands (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When one of you makes supplication, he should supplicate with a will and should not say: O Allah, confer upon me if Thou likest, for there is none to coerce Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters, but with a small variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Nadr b. Anas reported, as when Anas was alive, that he said:Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) not stated this.." None should make a request for death," I would have definitely done that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Hazim reported:I visited Khabbab who had seven cauteries on his stomach and he said: Had Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) not forbidden us to call for death, I would have done so (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Isma'il through other chains of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ubida b. Samit reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who loves to meet Allah, Allah also loves to meet him, and he who dislikes to meet Allah, Allah also abhors to meet him (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Ubada b. Samit through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Qatida with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who loves to meet Allah, Allah also loves to meet him, and who dislikes to meet Allah, Allah abhors to meet him. There is death before (one is able to) meet Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of A'isha through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Mutarrif with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who loves to meet Allah, Allah too loves to meet him, and he who dislikes to meet Allah, Allah abhors to meet him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him as saying that Allah thus stated:I live in the thought of My servant as he thinks of Me and with him as he calls Me) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mu'tamar from his father with the same chain of transmitters, with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been transmitted on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters and he (further) said:There is for him ten like that (the good he performed) or more than that (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Humaid with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith had been transmitted on the authority of Anas through another chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to supplicate (in these words):" Our Lord, grant us the good in this world and the good in the Hereafter and save us from the torment of Hell Fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Two are the expressions which are light on the tongue, but heavy in scale, dear to the Compassionate One:" Hallowed be Allah and praise is due to Him" ;" Hallowed be Allah, the Great (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The uttering of (these words):" Hallowed be Allah; all praise is due to Allah, there is no god but Allah and Allah is the Greatest," is dearer to me than anything over which the sun rises (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Malik Ashaja'i reported on the authority of his father that whenever a person embraced Islam, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) instructed him to recilte:" O Allah, grant me pardon, have mercy upon me, direct me to the path of righteousness and provide me sustenance (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Agharr al-Muzani, who was one amongst the Companions (of the Holy Prophet) reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:There is (at times) some sort of shade upon my heart, and I seek forgiveness from Allah a hundred times a day (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Agharr al-Muzani who was from amongst the Companions of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) reported that Ibn 'Umar stated to him that Allah's Messenger (may peace 'be upon him) said:O people, seek repentance from Allah. Verily, I seek repentance from Him a hundred times a day (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as say- ing:He who seeks repentance (from the Lord) before the rising of the sun from the west (before the Day of Resurrection), Allah turns to him with Mercy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Asim with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Musa with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported:We were along with Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) on a journey; the rest of the hadith is the same as transmitted by A'sim (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to say:" O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from incapacity, from indolence, from cowardice, from senility, from miserliness, and I seek refuge in Thee from the torment of the grave and from trial of the life and death (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (this suppli- cation) but with this variation that these words are not found in that supplication:" From the trial of life and death (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) used to seek refuge in Allah from such things as mentioned in the above-mentioned hadith and from 'miserliness" too (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) wed to make this supplication:" O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from miserliness, from sloth and from decrepitude (from eng-muslim.txt)
Khaula bint Hakim Sulamiyya reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: When anyone lands at a place, and then says:" I seek refuge in the Perfect Word of Allah from the evil of what He has created," nothing would harm him until he marches from that stopping place (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of al-Bara' b. 'Azib with a slight variation of wording and there is this addition in the hadith transmitted on the authority of Husain:" In case you get up in the morning, you will get up with bliss (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of al-Bara' b. 'Azib that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded a person (in these words) and there is no mention of this:" if you get up in the morning you would get up with a bliss (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to command us that as we go to our bedo, we should utter the words (as mention- ed above) and he also said (these words):" From the evil of every animal, Thou hast hold upon its forelock (Thou bast full control over it) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Fatima (the daughter of the Holy Prophet) came to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) and asked for a servant. He said to her:Say:" O Allah, the Lord of the seven heavens" ; the rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ubaidullah b. Umar with the same chain of transmitters and he said:Then utter:" My Lord. with Thine name I place my side and if Thou keepest me alive have mercy upon myself (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When you go to bed, say:" Praise is due to Allah Who fed us, provided us drink, sufficed us and provided us with shelter, for many a people there is none to suffice and none to provide shelter (from eng-muslim.txt)
Farwa' b. Naufal Ashja'i reported:I asked: 'A'isha, in what words did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) supplicate Allah? She said that he used to utter:" I seek refuge in Thee from the evil of what I did and from the evil of what I did not (from eng-muslim.txt)
Farwa' b. Naufal reported:I asked 'A'isha about the supplication that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) made. She said that he used to say:" O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from the evil of what I have done and from the evil of what I have not done (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Muhammad b. ja'far through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Farwa' b. Naufal reported on the authority of 'A'isha that Allah's Mes- senger (ﷺ) used to supplicate (in these words):" O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from the evil of what I did and from the evil of what I did not (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to supplicate (in these words):" O Allah. I beg of Thee the right guidance, safeguard against evils, chastity and freedom from want (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Ishaq with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira that Allah's Messenge; (ﷺ) used to supplicate thus:" There is no god but Allah, the One Who conferred upon His armies the honour of victory and helped His servant rout the clans; there is nothing after that (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Asim b. Kulaib with the same chain of transmitters that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to me:Say:" O Allah, I beg of Thee righteousness and adhering to the straight path (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but. with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as say- ing. When you listen to the crowing of the cock, ask Allah for His favour as it sees Angels and when you listen to the braying of the donkey, seek refuge in Allah from the Satan for it sees Satan (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported this hadith through another chain of transmitters with a sliglit variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) was asked as to which words were the best. He said:Those for which Allah made a choice for His Angels and His servants (and the words are):" Hallowed be Allah and praise is due to Him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Dharr reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:There is no believing servant who supplicates for his brother behind his back (in his absence) that the Angels do not say: The same be for you too (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Darda' reported:My husband reported that he heard Allah's Mes- senger (ﷺ) as saying: He who supplicates for his brother behind his back (in his absence), the Angel commissioned (for carrying supplication to his Lord) says: Amen, and it is for you also (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Safwan b. 'Abdullah b. Safwan with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Allah is pleased with His servant who says: Al-Hamdu lillah while taking a morsel of food and while drinking (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is reported through Ishaaq bin Yusuf Al-Azraq from Zakariyya bin Abi Za'ida through the same chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The supplication of every one of you is granted if he does not grow impatient and says: I supplicated but it was not granted (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The supplication of one of you is granted if he does not grow impatient and say- I supplicated my Lord but it was not granted (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:I had a chance to look into the Paradise and I found that majority of the people was poor and I looked into the Fire and there I found the majority constituted by women (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Abbas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) stated like this:He looked into the Fire of Hell. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith is narrated likewise through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Imran b. Husain reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Amongst the inmates of Paradise the women would form a minority (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mutarrif through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) supplicated in these words:" O Allah, I seek refuge in Thee from the withdrawal of Thine blessing and the change of Thine protection (from me) and from the sudden wrath of Thine, and from every displeasure of Thine (from eng-muslim.txt)
Usama b. Zaid reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I have not left after me any (chance) of turmoil more injurious to men than the harm done to the men because of women (from eng-muslim.txt)
Usama b. Zaid b. Harith and Sa'id b. Zaid b. 'Amr b. Naufal both reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I have not left after me turmoil for the people but the harm done to men by women (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sulaiman Taimi with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Musa b. 'Uqba but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah is more pleased with the repentance of His servant when he turns penitently towards Him than one of you would be on finding the lost camel (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah is more pleased with the repentance of a believing man. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ayyub Ansari reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:If you were not to commit sins, Allah would have swept you out of existence and would have replaced you by another people who have committed sin, and then asked forgiveness from Allah, and He would have granted them pardon (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hanzala Taimi Ufayyidi, the scribe of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ), reported:We were in the presence of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) and he brought to our minds the problems pertaining to Paradise and Hell-Fire. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:When Allah created the creation as He was upon the Throne, He put down in His Book: Verily, My mercy predominates My wrath (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, said: My mercy excels My wrath (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When Allah created the creation, He ordained for Himself and this document is with Him: Verily, My mercy predominates Mv wrath (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah created one hundred (parts of mercy) and He distributed one amongst His creation and kept this one hundred excepting one with Himself (for the Day of Resurrection) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salman Farisi reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Verily, there are one hundred (parts of) mercy for Allah, and it is one part of this mercy by virtue of which there is mutual love between the people and ninety-nine reserved for the Day of Resurrection (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Mu'tamir, reported on the authority of his father (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording and Qatada explained the word" lam yasiru" as:" I find no good in store for rxie in the eye of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
The hadlth has been narrated on the authority of 'Abd al-A'la b. Hammad with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported lie heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying that a servant committed a sin. The rest of the hadith is the same, but there is a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Nothing is more loveable to Allah than His praise as He has praised Himself and no one is more self-respecting than Allah Himself and it As because of this that He has prohibited abominable acts (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None is more self-respectidg than Allah and it is because of this that He has prohibited abominable acts-both visible and invisible-and none loves His praise more than Allah Himself (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Allah is self-respecting and a believer is also self-respecting and the respect of Allah is injured if a believer does what He has forbidden him to do (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Asma' daughter of Abu Bakr, through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Salama reported from Abu Huraira that he narrated that Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon hin) said:There is none more self-respecting than Allah, the Exalted and Glorious There is no mention of the narration of Asma (from eng-muslim.txt)
Asma' reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:There is none more self-respecting than Allah, the Exalted and Glorious (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (may peace be upon him ) as saying:A believer is self-respecting and Allah is extremely self-respecting (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted by Abu al-Ahwas and in this (these words are) also found:Mu'adh said: Allah's Messenger, does it concern this particular case or to all of us? And he (the Holy Prophet) said: Of course, to all of you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatida with the same chain of transmitters but (with this variation of wording):" Allah commanded the earth (from where) he wanted to come out to move itself away and to the other earth (where he wanted to go) to draw nearer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa' reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:When it will be the Day of Resurrection Allah would deliver to every Muslim a Jew or a Christian and say: That is your rescue from Hell-Fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Aun b. Utba (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) came to the grave of 'Abdullah b. Ubayy, brought him out from that, placed him on his knee and put his saliva in his mouth and shrouded him in his own shirt and Allah knows best (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came to the grave of 'Abdullah b. Ubayy as he was placed in that. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:" He then abandoned offering (funeral) prayer for them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. Abdullah reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who would climb this hill of Murar. The rest of the hadith is the same but with this variation that it was a desert Arab who was finding out his lost thing (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The similitude of a hypocrite is that of a sheep which roams aimlessly between two flocks. She goes to one at one time and to the other at another time (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) saying like this but with this change of words:" She sometimes finds a way in one flock and then in another flock (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:A bulky person would be brought on the Day of judgment and he would not carry the weight to the eye of Allah equal even to that of a gnat. Nor shall We set up a balance for them on the Day of Resurrection" (xviii) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, will take in His grip the Earth on the Day of Judgment and He would roll up the sky in His right hand and would say: I am the Lord; where are the sovereigns of the world? (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Miqsam reported that 'Abdullah b. 'Umar reported:I saw Allah'h Messenger (ﷺ) upon the pulpit and he was saying that the Mighty Lord, the Exalted and Glorious would take hold of the Heavens and earth in His hand. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sahl b. Sa'd reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The people will be assembled on the Day of Resurrection on a white plain with a reddish tinge like the loaf of white bread with no marks set up for anyone (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If ten scholars of the Jews would follow me, no Jew would be left upon the surface of the earth who would not embrace Islam (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported:I was walking along with Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) in a field of Medina. The rest of the hadith is the same, but there is a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) was reclining against a tree in the garden. The rest of the hadith is the same with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Khabbib through another chain of transmitters and the words are. I in the pre-Islamic days used to work as an iron-smith. I did some work for 'As b. Wa'il and came to him for getting the remuneration of my wages (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ma'mar reported on the authority of Abdullah that the moon was split up during lifetime by Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) in two parts and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Bear testimony to this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Mas'ud reported that the moon was split up in two parts during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). The mountain covered one of its parts and one part of it was above the mountain and Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Bear witness to this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Another chain of transmitters reported the like of this hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the people of Mecca demanded from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that he should show them (some) signs (miracles) and he showed twice the splitting of the moon. This hadlth has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the people of Mecca demanded from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that he should show them (some) signs (miracles) and he showed twice the splitting of the moon. This hadlth has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported that the moon was split up in two parts and in the hadith recorded in Abu Dawud, the words are:" The moon was split up into two parts during the life of Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas reported that the moon was split up during the lifetime of Allah's Messenger (may peace he upon him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of wording (and the words are):I shall cause him to enter Hell." (The words subsequent to these) have not been mentioned (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported this hadlth through another chain of transmitters and the words are:" It would be said to him: You have told a lie; what had been demanded from you was quite easier than this (the belief in the Oneness of Allah) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas b. Malik through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters, but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated through a couple of other chains of transmitters, one which says "the similitude of the disbeliever" instead and another which agrees with the wording of the previous hadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Ka'b through another chain of transmitters but with " "the similitude of the disbeliever is that of a cypress tree (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mujahid reported:I heard Ibn 'Umar as saying: There was brought to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) the kernel. The rest of the hadith is tile same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: Verily, the Satan has lost all hopes that the worshippers would ever worship (him) in the peninsula of Arabia, but he (is hopeful) that he would sow the seed of dissension amongst them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported that Allah's Apostle (may peace be upqn him) said:The Satan sends detachments of his own in order to put people to trial and the highest in rank, in his eyes, is one who is most notorious in sowing the seed of dissension (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Mansiir with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is none whose deeds alone would entitle him to get into Paradise. It was said to him: And, Allah's Messenger, not even you? Thereupon he said: Not even I, but that my Lord wraps me in Mercy (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There is none whose deeds alone can'secure salvation for him. They said: Allah's Messenger, not even you? Thereupon he said: Not even I, but that, the Mercy of Allah should take hold of me (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:None amongst you can get. into Paradise by virtue of his deeds alone. They said: Allah's Messenger, not even you? Thereupon he said: Not even I, but that Allah should wrap me in His Grace and Mercy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Jabir through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A hadith like this has been narrated on the authority of A'mash through two other chains of transmitters. The wording is, however, the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters with this addition:" Give them glad tidings (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying: None of you would get into Paradise because of his good deeds alone, and he would not be rescued from Fire, not even I, but because of the Mercy of Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Musa b. `Uqba with the same chain of transmitters and he did not make a mention of:"Be happy (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah through other chains of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported:The Paradise is surrounded by hardships and the Hell-Fire is surrounded by temptations (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:In Paradise, there is a tree under the shadow of which a rider can travel for a hundred years (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters with the addition of these words:" He will not be able to cover this distance (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The people most loved by me from amongst my Ummah would be those who would come after me but everyone amongst them would have the keenest desire to catch a glimpse of me even at the cost of his family and wealth (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of A'mash with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Jabir with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who would get into Paradise (would be made to enjoy such an everlasting) bliss that he would neither become destitute, nor would his clothes wear out, nor his youth would decline (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Saihan, Jaihan, Euphrates and Nile are all among the rivers of Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:There would enter Paradise people whose hearts would be like those of the hearts of birds (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Mas`ud reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Hell would be brought on that day (the Day of Judgment) with seventy thousand bridles, and seventy thousand angels dragging each bridle (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abn Huraira through another chain of transmitters with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abfi Huraira with the same chain of transmitters but with this change of wording that the Prophet (may. peace be upon him) said:It reached at its base and you heard its sound (from eng-muslim.txt)
Samura b. Jundub reported Allah's Apostle (may peace -be upon him) as saying:There will be some to whose ankels the fire will reach, some to whose knees, some to whose waist the fire will reach, and some to whose collar-bone the fire will reach (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The Paradise and the Hell disputed with each other. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id al-Khudri reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The Paradise and the Hell disputed with each other. The rest of the hadith is the same as transmitted by Abu Huraira up to the words'." It is essential for Me to fill up both of you (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said that the Hell would continue to say:Is there anything more, until Allah, the Exalted and High, would place His foot therein and that would say: Enough, enough, by Your Honour, and some parts of it would draw close to the other (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:There would be left some space in Paradise as Allah would like that to be left. Then Allah would create another creation as He would like (from eng-muslim.txt)
It is transmitted on the authority of Abu Huraira that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The molar tooth of an unbeliever or the canine teeth of an unbeliever will be like Uhud and the thickness of his skin a three night's journey (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported directly from Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) that he said:The distance of the two shoulders of the non-believer in Hell will be a three-day journey for a swift rider (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as say- ing:Many a people with dishevelled hair are driven away from the door (but they are so pious) that if they are to swear in the name of Allah, He would definitely fulfil that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as say- ing:I saw 'Amr b. Luhayy b. Qam'a b. Khindif, brother of Bani Ka'b, dragging his Intestines in Fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If you live for a time, you would certainly see people get up (in the morning) in the wrath of Allah and getting into the evening under the curse of Allah, and there would be in their hands (whips) like the tail of an ox (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hatim b. Abi Saghira with the same chain of transmitters and there is no mention of the word" uncircum- cised (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) deliver an address and he was saying that they would meet Allah barefooted, naked and uncircumcised (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Ibn 'Umar but with a slight variation of wording (and the words are):" One of them would be completely submerged in perspiration up to half of his ears (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as say- ing:The perspiration would spread on the Day of Resurrection upon the earth to the extent of seventy cubits and it would reach up to their mouths or up to their ears. Thaur is not sure (which words) he used (mouth or ears) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatada with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Iyad b. Himar that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) gave an address one day. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:If you were not (to abandon) the burying of the dead (in the grave), I would have certainly supplicated Allah that He should make you listen the torment of the grave (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Ayyub through some other chains of transmitters (and the words are):" Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) went out after the sun had set and he heard some sound and said: It is the Jews who are being tormented in their graves (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:When the dead body. is placed in the grave, he listens to the sound of the shoes (as his friends and relatives return after burying him) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said:When the servant is placed in his grave and his friends retrace their steps. The rest of the hadith is the same as transmitted by Qatada (from eng-muslim.txt)
Al-Bara' b. 'Azib reported that this verse:"Allah keeps those who believe steadfast with firm word in this world and the Hereafter" was revealed in connection with the torment of the grave (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ayyub with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:He who is examined thoroughly In reckoning is undone (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying three days before his death: None of you should court death but only hoping good from Allah (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b. 'Abdullah al-Ansari reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) say three days before his death: None of you should die but hoping only good from Allah, the Exalted and Glorious (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I heard Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying. Every servant would be raised (in the same very state) in which he dies (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of A'mash but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah b. Umar reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: When Allah intends to chastise a people, He chastises all of them then they would be raised according to their deeds (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zainab bint Jahsh with a slight variation in the chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with a different chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Today the wall (barrier) of Gog and Magog has been opened so much, and Wuhaib (in order to explain it) made the figure of ninety with the help of his hand (from eng-muslim.txt)
Usama reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) climbed up a battlement amongst the battlements of Medina and then said:You do not see what I am seeing and I am seeing the places of turmoil between your houses as the places of rainfall (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Waki' with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ahnaf b. Qais reported on the authority of Abu Bakra that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:When two Muslims confront each other with their swords, both the slayer and the slain are doomed to Hell-Fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hammad through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Bakra reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:When two Muslims (confront each other) and the one amongst them attacks his brother with a weapon, both of them are at the brink of Hell-Fire. And when one of them kills his companion, both of them get into Hell-Fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The last Hour will not come unless there is much bloodshed. They said: What is harj? Thereupon he said: Bloodshed. bloodshed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Thauban reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said. Verily, Allah drew the ends of the world near me until I saw its east and west, and He bestowed upon me two treasures, the red and the white. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Amir b. Sa'd reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came with a group of his Companions and he passed by the mosque of Banu Mu'awiya. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of A'mash with the same chain of transmitters up to the words:And he forgot who had to forget that and. he did not make a mention of what follows after this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hudhaifa reported:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) informed me of what is going to happen before the approach of the Last Hour. And there is nothing that I did not ask him in this connection except this that I did not ask him as to what would turn the people of Medina out from Medina (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hudhaifa through other chains of transmitters also (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hudhaifa reported that Umar said:Who would narrate to us (the ahadith pertaining to turmoil) and he reported a hadith similar to these ahadith (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Suhail with the same chain of transmitters but with this addition:" My father said: If you see that, do not even go near it (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Last Hour would not come unless the Euphrates would uncover a treasure of gold, so he who finds it should not take anything out of that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Euphrates would soon uncover a mountain of gold but he who is present there should not take anything from that (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I was in the company of Ibn Mas'ud that there blew a red storm. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported:I was in the house of 'Abdullah b. Mas'ud and the house was fully packed that a red storm blew in Kufah (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The Last Hour would not come until fire emits from the earth of Hijaz which would illuminate the necks of the camels of the Busra (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:(The Last Hour would not come) until the habitations of Medina would extend to Ihab or Yahab. Zubair said: I said to Suhail how far these were from Medina. He said: So and so miles (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The famine would not break out because of drought, but there would be famine despite heavy rainfall as nothing would grow from the earth (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn 'Umar reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying (in a state) that he had turned his face towards the east:Behold, turmoil would appear from this side, from where the horns of Satan would appear (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) came out from the house of 'Aisha and said:It would be from this side that there would appear the height of unbelief, viz. where appear the horns of Satan, i.e. the east (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying while pointing his hands towards the east: The turmoil would appear from this side; verily, the turmoil would appear from this side (he repeated it thrice) where appear the horns of Satan (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Ja'far with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:By Him in Whose Hand is my life, a time would come when the murderer would not know why he has committed the murder, and the victim would not know why he has been killed (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Ka'ba would be destroyed by an Abyssinian having two small shanks (from eng-muslim.txt)
(The above mentioned) hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:It would be an Abyssinian having two small shanks who would destroy the House ol Allah, the Exalted and Glorious (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messengar (ﷺ) as saying:The Last Hour would not come before a person of Qahtan comes forth driving people with his stick (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The day and the night would not come to an end before a man called al-Jahjah would occupy the throne (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Last Hour would not come unless you fight with people whose faces are like hammered shields and the Last Hour would not come until you would fight against those wearing the shoes of hair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Last Hour would not come until a people wearing shoes of hair fight against you having their faces like hammered shields (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Last Hour would not come until you fight with a people wearing shoes of hair and the Last Hour would not come until you fight with a people having small eyes and broad snub noses (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The Last Hour would not come until the Muslims fight with the Turks-a people whose faces would be like hammered shields wearing clothes of hair and walking (with shoes) of hair (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:You shall fight in the hours to come against a nation wearing shoes made of hair and faces like hammered shields, with red complexion and small eyes (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith hab been narrated by Sa'id with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id and Jabir b. Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:There would be in the last phase of the time a caliph who would distribute wealth but would not count (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Umm Salama that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said to 'Ammar:A group of rebels would kill you (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Umm Salama through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Salama reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:A band of rebels would kill `Ammar (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir b 'Abdullah reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) met Ibn Sa'id (Sayyad) and there were with him Abu Bakr and 'Umar and Ibn Sayyad was in the company of children. The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has transmitted on the authority of Abu Sa'id that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) asked Ibn Sa'id about the earth of Paradise. Thereupon he said:Abu'l-Qasim, It is like a fine white musk, whereupon he (the Holy Prophet) said: 'You have told the the truth (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sa'id reported that Ibn Sayyad asked Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) about the earth of Paradise. Whereupon he said:It is like white shining pure musk (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Umar reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). made a mention of Dajjal in the presence of the people and said:Allah is not one-eyed and behold that Dajjal is blind of the right eye and his eye would be like a floating grape (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn 'Umar through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:There is never a prophet who has not warned the Ummah of that one-eyed liar; behold he is one-eyed and your Lord is not one-eyed. On his forehead are the letters k f. r. (Kafir) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:There would be written three letters k. f. r., i. e. Kafir, between the eyes of the Dajjal (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Dajjal is blind of one eye and there is written between his eyes the word" Kafir". He then spelled the word as k. f. r., which every Muslim would be able to read (from eng-muslim.txt)
Hudhaifa reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:Dajjal is blind of left eye with thick hair and there would be a garden and fire with him and his fire would be a garden and his garden would be fire (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated by Zuhri with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Isma'il through other chains of transmitters with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Zur'a reported that there was a discussion in the presence of Marwan about the Last Hour, and Abdullah b. 'Amr said:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying. The rest of the hadith is the same, but there is no mention of forenoon (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Anas that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said this but with this addition that (the Dajjal would come) and pitch his tent in the waste-land of Juruf and thus there would come out of (the city) every hypocrite, man and woman (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The Dajjal would be followed by seventy thousand Jews of Isfahan wearing Persian shawls (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umm Sharik reported:I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying: The people would run away from the Dajjal seeking shelter in the mountains. She said: Where would be the Arabs then in that day? He said: They would be small in number (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ibn Juraij with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of 'Imran b. Husain with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) having said:Hasten to do good deeds before six things happen: the rising of the sun from the west, the smoke, the Dajjal, the beast and (the death) of one of you or the general turmoil (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Qatada through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ma'qil b. Yasar reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:Worshiping during the period of widespread turmoil is like emigration towards me (from eng-muslim.txt)
The previous hadith is narrated through Abu Kamil from Hammad with the same chain (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abdullah reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying:The Last Hour would affect (most terribly) the wicked persons (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported by Sahl b. Sa'd that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I and the Last Hour are (close to each other) like this (and he, in order to explain it) pointed (by joining his) forefinger, (one) next to the thumb and the middle finger (together) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Shu'ba reported:I heard Qatada and Abu Tayyab narrating that both of them heard Anas as narrating that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said: I and the Last Hour have been sent like this, and Shu'ba drew his forefinger and middle finger near each other while narrating it (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) as saying like this, but he narrated it through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:I and the Last Hour have been sent like this and (he while doing it) joined the forefinger with the middle finger (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas reported:A young boy of Mughira b. Shu'ba happened to pass by (the Holy Prophet) and he was of my age. Thereupon Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) said: If he lives long he would not grow very old till the Last Hour would come (to the old people of this generation) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The earth would consume all of the son of Adam except his tailbone. From it he was created, and from it he will be recreated (on the Day of Resurrection) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The world is a prison-house for a believer and Paradise for a non-believer (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jabir reported Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) narrating a hadith like this with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Mutarrif reported on the authority of his father:I went to Allah's Apostle (ﷺ). The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of al-'Ala' b. 'Abd al-Rahman with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Zuhri as reported by Yunus with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Isma'il b. Khalid with the same chain of transmitters and the words are:" One amongst us would relieve himself as the goats do without anything mixing with its excrement (from eng-muslim.txt)
Khalid b. 'Umair reported and he had seen the pre-Islamic days also, that 'Uqba b. Ghazwan delivered this address and he was the governor of Basra. The rest of the hadith is the same as transmitted by Shaiban (from eng-muslim.txt)
Khalid b. Umair reported:I heard Uqba b. Ghazwan as saving: I found myself as the seventh amongst the seven who had been along with Allah's Messenger (ﷺ). We had nothing to eat but the leaves of hubla (a wild tree) until the corners of our mouths were injured (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:O Allah, make for the family of Muhammad the provision which is a bare subsistence (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:0 Allah, provide for the, family of Muhammad their subsistence, and in the narration transmitted on the authority of 'Amr (the words are):" O Allah, provide us subsistence (from eng-muslim.txt)
Umara b. al-Qa'qa' reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters but instead of the word" qut" (bare subsistence) there has been used the word" Kafaf" (adequate means to meet the needs) (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Never had the family of Muhammad (ﷺ) eaten to the fill since their, arrival in Medina with the bread of wheat for three successive nights until his (Holy Prophet's) death (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:Never did Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) eat to his fill the bread of wheat for three successive days until he had run the course of his life (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Never did the family of Muhammad (ﷺ) eat to the fill the bread of barley for two successive days until Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) died (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported:Never could the family of Muhammad (ﷺ) (afford to eat to the fill) the bread of wheat beyond three days (successively) (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of 'Abdullah with the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:One who looks after the orphan whether he is his relative or not, I and he would be together in Paradise like this, and Malik (explained it) with the gesture by drawing his index finger and middle finger close together (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Ja'far with the same chain of transmitters with this variation (that the words are):" Allah would build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Wahb b. Kaisan with the same chain of transmitters but with this change that he said:" I earmark one-third for the poor, the needy and the wayfarers (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Abbas reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:If anyone wants to have his deeds widely publicised, Allah will publicise (his humiliation). And if anyone makes a hypocritical display (of his deeds) Allah will make a display of him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Jundub reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:He who wants to publicise (his deeds), Allah will publicise (his humility), and he who makes a hypocritical display (of his deeds), Allah will make a display of him (from eng-muslim.txt)
Sufyan reported this hadith with the same chain of transmitters and he made this addition:" I did not hear anyone saying besides him that it was Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) who had said so (from eng-muslim.txt)
Salama b. Kuhail reported:I heard from Jundub, but I did not hear him say this: "I heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saying this (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Sufyan reported like that as as-Saduq al-Amin al-Walid b. Harb narrated with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that he heard Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The servant speaks words for which he is sent down to the Hell-Fire farther than the distance between the east and the west (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The servant speaks words that he does not understand its repercussions but he sinks down in Hell-Fire farther than the distance between the east and the west (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Wa'il reported:I was in the company of Usama b. Zaid that a person said: What prevents you to visit Uthman and talk to him for what he does? The rest of the hadith is the same (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Anas through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) as saying:The yawning as from the devil. So when one of you yawns he should try to restrain it as far as it lies in his power (from eng-muslim.txt)
The son of Abu Said al-Khudri reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:When one of you yawns, he should keep his mouth shut with the help of his hand, for it is the devil that enters therein (from eng-muslim.txt)
The son of Abu Said al-Khudri reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:When one of you yawns, he should try to restrain it with cue help of his hand since it is the Satan that enters therein (from eng-muslim.txt)
The son of Abu Said al-Khudri reported on the authority of his father that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said. When one of you yawns while engaged in prayer, he should try to restrain so far as it lies in his power, since it is the Satan that enter therein (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Said al-Khudri reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) a hadith like this through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The Angels were born out of light and the Jinns were born out of the spark of fire and Adam was born as he has been defined (in the Qur'an) for you (i. e. he is fashioned out of clay) (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The believer does not allow to be stung twice from one (and the same) hole. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Huraira reported that Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) said:The believer does not allow to be stung twice from one (and the same) hole. This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Huraira through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
his hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Musa reported Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) saw a person lauding another person or praising him too much. Thereupon he said:You killed him, or you sliced the back of a person (from eng-muslim.txt)
Abu Ma'mar reported that a person lauded a ruler amongst the rulers and Miqdad began to throw dust upon him and he said:Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) commanded us that we should throw dust upon the faces of those who shower too much praise (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Miqdad through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
Anas b. Malik reported that Allah, the Exalted and Glorious, sent revelation to Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) just before his death in quick succession until he left for his heavenly home, and the day when he died, he received the revelation profusely (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa reported that he asked 'A'isha about the words of Allah:" If you fear that you will not be able to observe equity in case of orphan girls" ; the rest of the hadith is the same but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Hisham with the same chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
A'isha reported that these words of Allah:" When they came upon you from above you and from below you and when the eyes turned dull and the hearts rose up to the throats" (xxxiii. 10) pertain to the day of Ditch (from eng-muslim.txt)
Urwa reported on the authority of his father that 'A'isha said to him:O, the son of my sister, the Muslims were commanded to seek forgiveness for the Companions of Allah's Apostle (ﷺ) but they reviled them (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Abu Usama with the same chain of narrators (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the authority of Shu'ba with the same chain of narrators but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been reported on the authority of Abu 'Umais through the same chain of transmitters but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
Ibn Mas'ud said:Since our acceptance of Islam and the revelation of this verse in which Allah has shown annoyance to us:" Has not the time yet come for the believers that their hearts should be humble for the remembrance of Allah?" (lvii. 16), there was a gap of four years (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been transmitted on the same authority but with a slight variation of wording (from eng-muslim.txt)
This hadith has been narrated on the authority of Abu Dharr through another chain of transmitters (from eng-muslim.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you wakes from sleep, let him not dip his hand in (the water he uses for) his Wudu' until he has washed it three times, for none of you knows where his hand spent the night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Huthaifah said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got up at night, he would brush his mouth with the Siwak (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"I came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he was using the Siwak, and the end of the Siwak was on his toungue, and he was saying, "'A','a (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Abu 'Atiq said:"My father told me: 'I heard 'Aishah say, (narrating) from the Prophet (ﷺ): "Siwak is a means of purification for the mouth and is pleasing to the Lord (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'I have indeed urged you with regard to the Siwak (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Were it not that it would be too difficult for my Ummah, I would have commanded them to use the Siwak at (the time of) every Salah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Miqdam - Abu Shuraih - that his father said:"I said to 'Aishah: 'What did the Prophet (ﷺ) start with when he entered his house?' She said: 'The Siwak (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The Fitrah are five: Circumcision, removing the pubes, trimming the mustache, clipping the nails, and plucking the armpit hairs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The Fitrah are five: Trimming the mustache, plucking the armpit hairs, clipping the nails, removing the pubes, and circumcision (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The Fitrah are five: Circumcision, shaving the pubes, plucking the armpit hairs, clipping the nails and taking from the mustache (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The deeds connected to the Fitrah are: Clipping the nails, removing the mustache and shaving the pubes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zaid bin Arqam said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever does not trim his mustache, he is not from one of us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"A time limit was set for us, by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), regarding trimming the mustache, clipping the nails and plucking the pubes; we were not to leave that for more than forty days," on one occasion he said: "Forty nights (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Trim the mustache and let the beard grow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Qurad said:"I went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to an isolated area, and when he wanted to relieve himself he moved far away (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ayyub that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Do not face towards the Qiblah nor turn your backs toward it when defecating or urinating, rather face toward the east or the west (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When any one of you goes to defecate, let him not face toward the Qiblah, rather let him face towards the east or the west (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"I climbed on the roof of our house and saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on two bricks, facing toward Bait Al-Maqdis (jerusalem), relieving himself (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ said:"When any one of you urinates, let him not hold his penis in his right hand) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When any one of you enters Al-Khala' (the toilet), let him not touch his penis with his right hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhifah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)came to some people's garbage dump and urinated while standing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Mansur said:"I heard Abu Wa'il (say) that Hudhaifah said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to some people's garbage dump and urinated while standing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Whoever tells you that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) urinated standing up, do not believe him, for he would not urinate except while squatting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umaimah bint Ruqaiqah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) had a vessel made from a date tree in which he would urinate and place it under the bed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade urinating into standing water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"None of you should urinate in the place where he bathes, for most Waswas (devilish whispers) [1] come from that." [1] I.e., with regard to whether the urine has soiled his body or not (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"A man passed by the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was urinating and greeted him with Salam, but he did not return his greeting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Muhajir bin Qunfudh that he greeted the Prophet (ﷺ) with Salam while he was urinating, and he did not return the greeting until he had performed Wudu'. When he had performed Wudu' he returned the greeting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade cleaning oneself with bones or dung (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Qais that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When you clean yourselves (with stones, after defecating), use an odd number (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you goes to the Gha'it (toilet to defecate), let him take with him three stones and clean himself with them, for that will suffice him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would go to the toilet, I and another boy like me would bring a small leather vessel of water and he would clean himself with water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Tell your husbands to clean themselves with water, for I am too shy to tell them myself. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you drinks, let him not breathe into the vessel, and when he goes to the toilet let him not touch his penis with his right hand, nor wipe himself with this right hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abi Qatadah, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade breathing into the vessel (when drinking), touching one's penis with one's right hand, and cleaning oneself with one's right hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Wudu', and when he had performed Istinja' he rubbed his hand on the ground (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"A Bedouin urinated in the Masjid, and the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that a bucket (be brought) and poured over it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas said:"A Bedouin came to the Masjid and urinated, and the people yelled at him, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Leave him alone.' So they left him alone. When he had finished urinating, he ordered that a bucket (be brought) and poured over it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"None of you should urinate into still water and then perform Wudu' with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"If a dog drinks from the vessel of one of you, let him wash it seven times (from eng-nasai.txt)
Thabit, the freed slave of 'Abdur-Rahman bin Zaid narrated that he heard Abu Hurairah say:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If a dog licks the vessel of any one of you, let him wash it seven times (from eng-nasai.txt)
A similar Hadith was narrated from Abu Hurairah from Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Al-Mughaffal that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that dogs be killed, but he made an exception for hunting dogs and sheepdogs and said:"If a dog licks a vessel then wash it seven times, and rub it the eighth time with dust (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"An announcer came to us from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and said: 'Allah and His Messenger forbid you from (eating) the flesh of domestic donkeys, for it is filth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Men and women used to perform Wudu' together during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that she used to perform Ghusl with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) from a single vessel (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Jabr said:"I heard Anas bin Malik say: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Wudu' with a Makkuk (cup) and Ghusl with five Makkuks (cups) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Urwah bin Al-Mughirah that he heard his father say:"I poured water for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he performed Wudu' during the battle of Tabuk, and he wiped over his Khuff (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Shall I not tell you of the Wudu' of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)? He performed Wudu' by washing each part of the body once (from eng-nasai.txt)
Al-Muttalib bin 'Abdullah bin Hantab (narrated) that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar performed Wudu', washing each part of the body three times, and he attributed that to the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from (Aws bin) Abi Aws that his grandfather said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) trickle water into his hand until it started to drip from his hand, three times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you performs Wudu', let him put water in his nose then blow it out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Asim bin Laqit bin Sabirah that his father said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, tell me about Wudu." He said: 'Perform Wudu' well,[1] and exxagerate in sniffing water up into your nose, except when you are fasting.'" [1]See No (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever performs Wudu' then let him sniff water in the nose and blow it out, and whoever uses small stones (to remove filth) then make it odd (numbered) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Qais that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When you perform Wudu', sniff water in your nose and blow it out, and when you use small stones (to remove filth), then make it off (numbered) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you wakes from sleep to perform Wudu', then let him sniff water in his nose and blow it out three times, for the Shaitan spends the night on his nose (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali called for (water for) Wudu', then he rinsed his mouth and nose, and he sniffed up water and blew it out using his left hand. He did that three times, then he said:"This is how the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) purified himself (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Zaid, who was shown the call to prayer (in a dream), said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) perform Wudu'; he washed his face three times and his hands twice, he washed his feet twice and wiped his head twice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Bilal said:"I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) wiping over the Khuff and the Khimar." [1] A head covering not limited to the common usage of "turban" as is clear from the first narration (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Bilal said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiping over the Khuff (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Bilal said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiping over the Khimar and Khuff (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Mughirah that the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Wudu', and he wiped the forehead, the 'Imamah, and over the Khuff. (Another chain) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Abu Al-Qasim the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Woe to the heels from the Fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw some people whose heels were still dry, so he said: 'Woe to the heels from the Fire. Perform Wudu' properly (from eng-nasai.txt)
Al-Qaisi narrated that he was with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on a journey, and some water was brought to him. He poured some onto his hands from the vessel and washed them once, then he washed his face and each arm once, and he washed his feet with both hands (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubaid bin Juraih said:"I said to Ibn 'Umar: 'I see you are wearing Sibtiyyah sandals, [1] and you performed Wudu' in them.' He said: 'I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wearing then and performing Wudu' in them.'" [1] Made of hairless, tanned leather (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ja'far bin 'Amr bin Umayyah Ad-Damri that his father saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing Wudu' and wiping over his Khuffs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiped over the Khuffs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas, from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), with regard to wiping over the Khuffs; "There is nothing wrong with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out to relieve himself, and Al-Mughirah followed him, (carrying) a vessel of water. He poured water for him when he had finished relieving himself, and he performed Wudu' and wiped over his Khuffs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Safwan bin 'Assal said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) granted us a dispensation when traveling, allowing us not to take off our Khuffs for three days and three nights (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali (may Allah be pleased with him) said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) set a time limit of three days and three nights for the traveler, and one day and one night for the resident - meaning, with regards to wiping (over the Khuffs) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out from the toilet and food was brought to him. They said:"Shall we not bring water for Wudu'?" He said: "I have only been commanded to perform Wudu' when I want to pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Hakam bin Sufyan said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performing Wudu' and sprinkling his private area (with water) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hayyah said:"I saw 'Ali performing Wudu', washing each part thrice. Then he stood up and drank the water that was left over from his Wudu' and said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did as I have done (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Al-Munkadir said:"I heard Jabir say: 'I fell sick, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and Abu Bakr came to visit me. They found me unconscious, so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed Wudu' and poured his Wudu' water over me (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Al-Malih, that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Allah does not accept Salah without purification, nor charity from Ghulul.'" [1] [1] That which is taken from the spoils of war prior to their distribution (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Do Wudu' properly.'" [1] [1] Isbighu Al-Wudu'. And this narration supports the claim that some of them used this expression to mean "three times" for each limb, rather than "properly (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uthman said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'There is no man who performs Wudu' and does it well, then prays, but when he prays it, he will be forgiven whatever (sins he commits) between that and the next prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uqbah bin 'Amir Al-Juhani said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever performs Wudu' and does it well, then prays two Rak'ahs in which his heart and face are focused, Paradise will be his (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"I was a man who had a lot of prostatic discharge, and the daughter of the Prophet (ﷺ) was married to me, so I felt shy to ask him (about that). I said to a man who was sitting beside me: 'Ask him,' so he asked him and he said: 'Perform Wudu' for that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'A'ish bin Anas that 'Ali said:"I was a man who had a lot of prostatic discharge, so I told 'Ammar bin Yasir to ask the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (about it) because his daughter was married to me. He said: 'Wudu' is sufficient for that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Rafi' bin Khadij that 'Ali told 'Ammar to ask the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about prostatic fluid, and he said:'Let him wash his male member and perform Wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"I felt too shy to ask the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about prostatic fluid because of Fatimah, so I told Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad to ask about it, and he (the Prophet (ﷺ)) said: 'Perform Wudu' for that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Safwan bin 'Assal said:"When we were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on a journey, he told us not to take them off for three days except in the case of Janabah, but not in the case of defecation, urinating or sleep (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sa'eed - meaning Ibn Al-Musayyab - and 'Abbad bin Tamim narrated that his uncle - 'Abdullah bin Zaid - said:"A man who felt something during Salah complained to the Prophet (ﷺ). He said: 'Do not stop praying unless you notice a smell or hear a sound (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you wakes from sleep, let him not put his hand into the vessel until he has washed it three times, because he does not know where his hand spent the night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If a man feels drowsy when he is praying, let him stop, lest he supplicate against himself without realizing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray when I was lying in front of him as the bier is placed (in front of the Imam), and when he wanted to pray Witr he would nudge me with his foot (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I remember lying in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was praying. When he wanted to prostrate he would nudge my foot and I would draw it up (out of the way) until he had finished prostrating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Perform Wudu' from that which has been touched by fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Perform Wudu' from that which has been touched by fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:'Perform Wudu' from that which has been touched by fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ayyub said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Perform Wudu' from that which has been altered by fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Talhah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Perform Wudu' from that which has been altered by fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Talhah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Perform Wudu' from that which has been heated with fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
Zaid bin Thabit said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Perform Wudu' from that which has been touched by fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at (meat from) a shoulder, then Bilal came to him and he went out to pray, and he did not touch water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was reported that Ibn 'Abbas said "I witnessed (that) the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ate bread and meat, then stood for prayer and did not perform ablution (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was reported that Jabir (ra) said "That last of the two matters from the Messenger ofAllah (ﷺ) was leaving off ablution from that which had been touched by fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
The Apostle (ﷺ) took milk and then called for water and rinsed (his mouth) and said:It contains greasiness (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Qais bin 'Asim that he accepted Islam, and the Prophet commanded him to perform Ghusl with water and lotus leaves (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When (a man) sits between the four parts of his wife's body and exerts himself, then Ghusl becomes obligatory (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"I was one who had a lot of prostatic discharge, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'If you see Madhi (prostatic fluid) then wash your penis and perform Wudu' like that for Salah, but if you ejaculate semen, then perform Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"I was one who had a lot of prostatic discharge, so I asked the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said: 'If you see Madhi (prostatic fluid) then perform Wudu' and wash your penis, but if you see semen ejaculated, then perform Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that Umm Sulaim asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about a woman who sees in her dream something like a man sees. He said:"If water is released then let her perform Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Khawlah bin Hakim said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about a woman who has a wet dream and he said: 'If she sees water, let her perform Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ayyub that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Water is for Water." [1] [1] That is, water for peforming Ghusl is obligatory when the ejaculation of water (semen) occurs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The man's water is thick and white, and the woman's water is thin and yellow. Whichever of them comes first, the child will resemble (that parent) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"When the time of menstruation comes, stop praying, and when it goes, perform Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah, in the Hadith of Asma' bint 'Umair, when she gave birth in Dhul-Hulaifah, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to Abu Bakr:"Tell her to perform Ghusl and enter Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'None of you should perform Ghusl in standing water when he is Junub (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"None of you should urinate into still water and then perform Ghusl from it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu As-Samh said:"I used to serve the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and when he wanted to perform Ghusl he said: 'Turn your back.' So I turned my back to him and concealed him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Musa Al-Juhani said:"A vessel was brought to Mujahid, which I estimated to be eight Ratls, and he said: 'Aishah told me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Ghusl using such a vessel (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Ghusl from a vessel which was the size of a Faraq [1] and he and I used to perform Ghusl using a single vessel." [1] Sixteen Ratls (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Jabr said:"I heard Anas bin Malik say: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Wudu' with a Makkuk and Ghusl with five Makkuks (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to perform Ghusl with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) from one vessel, which was the size of a Faraq (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Ghusl; he and I from a single vessel, both of us scooping water from it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Qasim said:"I heard Al-Qasim narrating that 'Aishah said: 'I used to perform Ghusl, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and I from a single vessel, from Janabah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I remember competing over the vessel with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), when he and I were using it to perform Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and I used to perform Ghusl together using one vessel (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"My maternal aunt Maimunah told me that she and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Ghusl from one vessel (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to perform Ghusl - the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and I - from one vessel. He would compete with me and I would with him until he would say: 'Leave me some' and I would say: 'Leave me some (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Hani' that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed Ghusl, he and Maimunah from a single vessel, a bowl in which there were traces of dough (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ), said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, I am a woman with tightly braided hair; should I undo it when performing Ghusl from Janabah?' He said: 'No it is sufficient for you to pour three handfuls of water over your body (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aishah narrated concerning the Ghusl of the Prophet (ﷺ) from Janabah, that he used to wash his hands and perform Wudu', then he would run (his fingers) through his (hair on his) head so that it reaches all of his hair, then he would pour water over his entire body (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to soak his head, then he would pour water over it three times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jubair bin Mut'im said:"They argued about Ghusl in the presence of the messenger of Allah (ﷺ). One of the people said: 'I perform Ghusl in such-and-such a manner.' The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'As for me, I pour three handfuls of water over my head (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used not to perform Wudu' after Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Ghusl and a cloth was brought to him, but he did not touch it, and he started doing like this with the water. [1] [1] This is a demonstration of his wiping off the water on his body with his hands (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"If the Prophet (ﷺ)" - (one of the narrators) 'Amr said: "If the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)" - "wanted to eat or sleep while he was Junub, he would perform Wudu'." In his narration, 'Amr (one of the narrators) added: "Wudu' was for prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that if the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wanted to sleep while he was Junub, he would perform Wudu', and if he wanted to eat he would wash his hands (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah that 'Aishah said:"If the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wanted to sleep while he was Junub, he would perform Wudu', and if he wanted to eat or drink," she said: "he would wash his hands and then eat or drink (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"If the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wanted to sleep while he was Junub, he would perform Wudu' as for prayer before sleeping (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that 'Umar said:"O Messenger of Allah! May any one of us sleep while he is Junub?" He said: "When he performs Wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Umar mentioned to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) that he became Junub at night, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Perform Wudu' and wash you penis, then sleep (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The angels do not enter a house where there is an image, a dog or a Junub person (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you a wants to return (to have intercourse again), let him perform Wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went around all his wives and only performed Ghusl once (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to (go around) all his wives and perform Ghusl once (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Salimah said:"I came to 'Ali with two other men and he said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to come out of the toilet and recite Qur'an, and he would eat meat with us and nothing would prevent him from (reciting) Qur'an except Janabah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite Qur'an in all circumstances except when he was Junub (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Huthaifah that the Prophet (ﷺ) met him when he was Junub:"And he came close to me and reached out his hand. I said: 'I am Junub.' He said: 'The Muslim is not made impure (Najis) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"While the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in the Masjid, he said: 'O 'Aishah, hand me the garment.' She said: 'I am not praying.' He said: 'It is not in your hand.' So she gave it to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Give me the mat from the Masjid.'" She said: "I am menstruating." The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Your menstruation is not in you hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
A similar Hadith was narrated from Al-A'mash with the same chain (from eng-nasai.txt)
Maimunah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to lay his head in the lap of one of us while she was menstruating and recite Qur'an, and one of us would take the mat to the Masjid and spread it out while she was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The head of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would rest in the lap of one of us when she was menstruating, and he would recite Qur'an (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) would put his head out while he was in I'tikaf and I would wash it, while I was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) would put his head out for me while he was performing I'tikaf [1] and I would wash it, when I was menstruating." [1] Mujawir ("next door") here means while performing I'tikaf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to comb the hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when I was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
Something similar was narrated by Malik, from Az-Zuhri, from 'Urwah, from 'Aishah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to put his mouth on the place where I had drunk from, and he would drink from what was leftover by me, while I was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would tell one of us, if she was menstruating, to tie her Izar (waist wrap) tightly then he would fondle her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"If one of us was menstruating, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would tell her to put on an Izar (waist wrap) then he would fondle her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Maimunah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would fondle one of his wives while she was menstruating, if she wore an Izar (waist wrap) that reached halfway down to the middle of her thighs or to her knees." In the narration of Al-Laith: "Being covered with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas from the Prophet (ﷺ) concerning a man who has had intercourse while she was menstruating:"Let him give a Dinar or half a Dinar in charity (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Adi bin Dinar said:"I heard Umm Qais bint Mihsan say that she asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about menstrual blood that gets on one's clothes. He said: 'Scratch it with a stick and wash it with water and lotus leaves (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Asma' bint Abi Bakr taht a woman asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about menstrual blood that gets on clothes. He said:"Scratch it, then rub it with water, then sprinkle water over it, and pray in it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'awiyah bin Abi Sufyan that he asked Umm Habibah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ):"Did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pray in a garment in which he had had intercourse?" She said: "Yes, so long as he saw no filth on it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to wash the Janabah from the garment of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he would go out to pray, with traces of water on his garment (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to scrape the Janabah." On another occasion she said: "The semen from the garment of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hammam bin Al-Harith that 'Aishah said:"I remember when I could do no more than rub it form the garment of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to rub it off from the garment of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to see it on the garment of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and scratch it off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I remember rubbing the Janabah from the garment of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I remember finding it on the garment of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and scratching it off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"A small boy was brought to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he urinated on him, so he called for water and poured it on the place where the urine was (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu As-Samh said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'A girl's urine should be washed away and a boy's urine should be sprinkled with water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ took the hem of his garment and spat on it, rubbed it together briefly and let it drop) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you prays, let him not spit in front of him or to his right, rather let him spit to his left or beneath his feet." Then the Prophet (ﷺ) spat like this on his garment and rubbed it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ammar bin Yasir said:"I became Junub while I was on a camel and I could not find any water, so I rolled in the dust like an animal. I came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and told him about that, and he said: 'Tayammum would have been sufficient for you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ammar bin Yasir said:"We did Tayammum with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) using dust, and we wiped our faces and our arms up to the shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Clean earth is the Wudu' of the Muslim, even if he does not find water for ten years (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that one of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Ghusl from Janabah, and the Prophet (ﷺ) performed Wudu' with her leftover water. She mentioned that to him and he said:"Water is not made impure by anything." [1] [1] See the following versions (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"It was said: 'O Messenger of Allah, you perform Wudu' from the well into which the bodies of dogs, menstrual rags and garbage are thrown?' He said: 'Water is pure and it is not made impure by anything (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abi Sa'eed Al-Khudri that his father said:"I passed by the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was performing Wudu' from the well of Buda'ah. I said: 'Are you performing Wudu' from it when garbage is thrown into it?' He said: 'Water is not made impure by anything (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubaidullah bin 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about water and how some animals and carnivorous beasts might drink from it. He said: 'If the water is more than two Qullahs, it will not become filthy (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that a Bedouin urinated in the Masjid, and some of the people went after him, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Do not restrain him." When he had finished he called from a bucket (of water) and poured over it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'None of you should perform Ghusl in standing water while he is Junub (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If a dog licks the vessel of any one of you, let him throw (the contents) away and wash it seven times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that dogs be killed, but he made an exception for hunting dogs and sheepdogs and said:"If a dog licks a vessel then wash it seven times and rub it the eighth time with dust (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"If a dog licks the vessel of any one of you, let him wash it seven times, the first time with dust (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"If a dog licks the vessel of any one of you, let him wash it seven times, the first time with dust (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Men and women used to perform Wudu' together during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Hakam bin 'Amr that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade a man from performing Wudu' with the leftovers of a woman's (water for) Wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that she used to perform Ghusl with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) from a single vessel (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Jabr said:"I heard Anas bin Malik say: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Wudu' with a Makkuk (cup) and Ghusl with five Makkuks (cups) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Ghusl with a Mudd and Ghusl with approximately a Sa (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Ghusl with a Mudd and Ghusl with a Sa (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"When the time of menstruation comes, stop praying, and when it goes, perform Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Umm Habibah bint Jahsh asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): 'O Messenger of Allah, I suffer from Istihadah.' He said: 'That is a vein, so perform Ghusl, then pray.' And she used to perform Ghusl for each prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muhammad said:"Umm 'Atiyah said: 'We used not to regard yellowish and brownish discharge as anything important (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas from the Prophet (ﷺ) concerning a man who has had intercourse with his wife while she was menstruating:"Let him give a Dinar or half a Dinar in charity (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would tell one of us, if she was menstruating, to tie her Izar (waist wrap) tightly then he would fondle her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"If one of us was menstruating, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would tell her to put on an Izar (waist wrap) then he would fondle her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Maimunah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would fondle one of his wives when she was menstruating, if she wore and Izar (waist wrap) that reached halfway down her thighs or to her knees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Miqdam bin Shuraih, from his father, that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would put his mouth on the place from which I had drunk, and he would drink from my leftovers when I was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The head of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would rest in the lap of one of us when she was menstruating, and he would recite Qur'an (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"While the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in the Masjid, he said: 'O 'Aishah, hand me the garment.' She said: 'I am not praying.' He said: 'It is not in your hand.' So she gave it to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Give me the mat from the MAsjid.' She said: 'I am menstruating.' The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Your menstruation is not in your hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
Maimunah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to lay his head in the lap of one of us and recite Qur'an while she was menstruating, and one of us would take the mat to the Masjid and spread it out when she was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that she used to comb the hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when she was menstruating and he was performing I'tikaf. He would put his head out to her while she was in her room (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) would put his head out while he was performing I'tikaf and I would wash it, while I was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to put his head out of the Masjid while he was performing I'tikaf, and I would wash it, while I was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to comb the hair of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) while I was menstruating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that she said to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ):"Safiyyah bint Huyai began menstruating." The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Perhaps she has detained us. Did she not circumambulate the House with you?" She said: "Yes." He said: "Then you can leave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah concerning Asma' bint Umais that when she gave birth at Dhul-Hulaifah, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to Abu Bakr:"Tell her to perform Ghusl and (begin the Talbiyah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah said:"I offered the funeral prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for Umm Ka'b who had died during childbirth, and during the prayer, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood at her middle (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Asma' bint Abi Bakr that a woman asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about menstrual blood that gets on clothes. He said:"Scratch it, then rub it with water, then sprinkle water over it, and pray in it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Adi bin Dinar said:"I heard Umm Qais bint Mihsan say that she asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about menstrual blood that gets on one's clothes. He said: 'Scratch it with a stick and wash it with water and lotus leaves (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'None of you should perform ghusl in standing water while he is Junub (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"None of you should urinate into standing water and then perform Ghusl or Wudu' with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade urinating into standing water and then performing Ghusl from Janabah in it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade urinating into standing water then performing Ghusl with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, let him not enter a bath house except wearing an Izar (waist wrap) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Safwan bin Ya'la that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Allah loves concealment, so when any one of you performs Ghusl let him conceal himself with something (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Maimunah said:"I put some water out for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), then I concealed him" - and she mentioned how he performed Ghusl, then she said: "Then I brought him a cloth (a towel) but he did not want it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Ghusl from a vessel which was the size of a Faraq [1] and he and I used to perform Ghusl from a single vessel." [1] See No (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to perform Ghusl, he and I from a single vessel, both of us scooping water from it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Qasim said:"I heard Al-Qasim narrating that 'Aishah said: 'I used to perform Ghusl - the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and I - from a single vessel for Janabah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I remember competing over the vessel [1] with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), when he and I were performing Ghusl from it." [1] See the following narration and no (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to perform Ghusl - the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and I - from one vessel. He would compete with me and I would with him (to take the water) until he would say: 'Leave me some,' and I would say, 'Leave me some (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aishah said:"I remember performing Ghusl - myself and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), from this" - a vessel like a Sa' or smaller. "We both started taking water from it and I poured water over my head with my hand, three times, without undoing any of my hair (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) used to like to start with the right as much as he could when purifying himself, putting on sandals and combing his hair" - and he (the narrator) said in Wasit (a place in Iraq): "And in all his affairs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jubair bin Mut'im that mention of Ghusl was made in the presence of the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said:"As for me, I pour water on my head three times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed Ghusl, he would pour water on his head three times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not perform Wudu' after Ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aishah said:"I used to put perfume on the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he would go around to all his wives, then enter Ihram in the morning with the smell of perfume coming from him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ata' bin Yasar that two men - and he quoted the Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali, may Allah be please with him, said:"I was a man who emotted a great deal of Madhi. I told a man to ask the Prophet (ﷺ) (about that) and he said: 'Wudu' (is required) for that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"I felt too shy to ask the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about Madhi because of Fatimah, so I told Al-Miqdad to ask him, and he said: 'Wudu' (is required) for that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"I sent Al-Miqdad to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to ask him about Madhi, and he said: 'Perform Wudu' and sprinkle water over your private part.'" Abu 'Abdur-Rahman said: Makhramah (one of the narrators) did not hear anything from his father (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sulaiman bin Yasar said:"Ali bin Abi Talib sent Al-Miqdad to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to ask him about a man who notices Madhi. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Let him wash his penis then perform Wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When any one of you gets up after (sleeping) at night, let him not put his hand into the vessel until he has poured water on it two or three times, for none of you knows where his hand spent the night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) one night, and I stood on his left, but he made me stand on his right, and he prayed. Then he reclined on his side and took a nap, then the Mu'adhdhin came to him and he prayed, and did not perform Wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"If anyone of you feels drowsy during his Salah, let him go and take a nap (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Busrah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever touches his private part, let him perform Wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Busrah bint Safwan that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"If any one of you touches his private part with his hand, let him perform Wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Busrah bin Safwan that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever touches his penis, he should not perform Salah until he performs Wudu'." Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasa'i) said: Hisham bin 'Urwah did not hear this Hadith from his father (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The first time the Salah was enjoined it was two Rak'ahs, and it remained as such when traveling, but the Salah while resident was made complete (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Salah was enjoined two Rak'ahs at a time, then the Salah when traveling remained like that, but the Salah while resident was increased (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Salah was enjoined on the lips of the Prophet (ﷺ), four Rak'ahs while resident, and two while traveling, and one Rak'ah during times of fear (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buraidah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The covenant that stands between us and them is the Salah; whoever abandons it, he has committed disbelief (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'There is nothing between a person and disbelief except abandoning Salah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Al-Munkadir and Ibrahim bin Maisarah, that they heard Anas say:"I prayed Zuhr with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Al-Madinah, four Rak'ahs and 'Asr in Dhul-Hulaifah, two Rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakr bin 'Umarah bin Ruwaibah Ath-Thaqafi that his father said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'He will never enter the Fire, the one who prays before the sun rises and before it sets (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali (ﷺ) that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"They distracted us from Salatul-Wusta (the middle prayer) until the sun went down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Qilabah said:"Abu Al-Malih narrated to me: 'We were with Buraidah on a cloudy day and he said: "Pray early, for the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever abandons Salat Al-'Asr, his good deeds will perish (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to stand in Zuhr and recite the equivalent of thirty verses in each Rak'ah, then in the first two Rak'ahs of 'Asr he would stand for the equivalent of fifteen verses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed Zuhr in Al-Madinah, four Rak'ahs, and he prayed 'Asr in Dhul-Hulaifah, two Rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Irak bin Malik said:"I heard Nawfal bin Mu'awiyah say: 'There is a prayer which if a person misses it, it is as of he has been robbed of his family and his wealth.'" Ibn 'Umar said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'It is 'Asr prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
Al-Hakam said:"Sa'eed bin Jubair led us in prayer in Jam'. (He prayed) Maghrib, three Rak'ahs with an Iqamah, then he prayed 'Isha', two Rak'ahs. Then he mentioned that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar had done that, and he mentioned that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had done that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Salamah bin Kuhail narrated:"I heard Sa'eed bin Jubair say: 'I saw 'Abdullah bin 'Umar pray in Jam'; he made the Iqamah and prayed Maghrib, three Rak'ahs, then he prayed 'Isha', two Rak'ahs, then he said: 'This is what I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) do in this place (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Bakr bin 'Umarah bin Ruwaibah narrated that his father said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'No one will enter the Fire who prays before the sun rises and before it sets (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' said:"We prayed toward Bait Al-Maqdis (Jerusalem) with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for sixteen or seventeen months - Safwan was not sure - then it was changed to the Qiblah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray voluntary prayers (Usabbih) while riding his mount, facing whatever direction it was facing, and he would pray Witr likewise, but he would not offer the prescribed prayers on it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray on his mount while on a journey, no matter what direction it was facing." Malik said: "Abdullah bin Dinar said: 'And Ibn 'Umar used to do likewise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Az-Zuhri he said:"Anas told me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out when the sun had passed its zenith, and led them in Zuhr prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Khabbab said:"We complained to the Messenger of Alalh (ﷺ) about how hot the sand was, but he did not respond to our complaint." It was said to Abu Ishaq (one of the narrators): "Did they complain regarding his praying it early?" He said: "Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hamzah Al-'A'idhi said:"I heard Anas bin Malik say: 'When the Prophet (ﷺ) halted, he would not move on until he had prayed Zuhr.' A man said: 'Even if it was the middle of the day?' He said: 'Even if it was the middle of the day (from eng-nasai.txt)
Khalid bin Dinar Abu Khaldah said:"I heard Anas bin Malik say: 'When it was hot, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would wait until it cooled down to pray, and when it was cold he would hasten to pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If it is very hot, wait until it cools down before you pray, for intense heat is a breeze from Hell (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa in a Marfu' [1] report:"Wait until it cools down to pray Zuhr, for the heat you experience is a breeze from Hell." [1] Meaning he attributed it to the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed Zuhr when the length of (a person's shadow) was between three and five feet in summer, and between five and seven feet in winter (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed 'Asr when the sun was in her room and the shadow had not appeared on her wall (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to lead us in 'Asr prayer when the sun was still bright and high (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah, may Allah be pleased with him, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with two Rak'ahs of 'Asr prayer before the sun sets, or one Rak'ah of the Subh prayer before the sun rises, has caught it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with one Rak'ah of 'Asr prayer before the sun sets, or catches up with one Rak'ah of Fajr before the sun rises, has caught it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that An-Nu'man bin Bashir said:"I am the most knowledgeable of people about the time of the 'Isha' prayer. The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray it when the moon set on the third night of the month (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that An-Nu'man bin Bashir said:"By Allah, I am the most knowledgeable of people about the time of the 'Isha' prayers. The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray it when the moon set on the third night of the month (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Were it not that I would impose too much difficulty on my Ummah, I would have commanded them to delay 'Isha' and to use the Siwak for every prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Do not let the Bedouin make you change the name of this prayer of yours, for they delay the prayer until it is very dark because of their preoccupation with camels and milking them. Verily, it is 'Isha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say on the Minbar: 'Do not let the Bedouin make you change the name of your prayer; verily, it is 'Isha (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ja'far bin Muhammad bin 'Ali bin Al-Husain narrated from his father, that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed Subh as soon as he was certain the dawn had appeared (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) has prayed Subh, the women would depart, wrapped in their wrappers, unrecognizable because of the darkness (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The women used to pray Subh with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), wrapped in their wrappers, then they would return, and no one would recognize them because of the darkness (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Rafi' bin Khadij that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Pray Fajr when the dawn shines (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mahmud bin Labid, from some men among his people who were of the Ansar, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The more you delay Fajr, the greater the reward (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with a prostration of Subh before the sun rises, then he has caught up with it; and whoever catches up with a prostration of 'Asr before the sun sets, then he has caught up with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with a Rak'ah of Fajr before the sun rises, then he has caught up with it; and whoever catches up with a Rak'ah of 'Asr before the sun sets, then he has caught up with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with a Rak'ah of the prayer, then he has caught up with the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with a Rak'ah of the prayer, then he has caught up with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with a Rak'ah of the prayer, then he has caught up with the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever catches up with a Rak'ah of the prayer has caught up with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with with a Rak'ah of Jumu'ah or any other (prayer), his prayer is complete (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever catches up with a Rak'ah of one of the prayers has caught up with it, except that he has to make up the portion that he missed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade praying after 'Asr until the sun had set, and after Subh until the sun had risen (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"No one of you should deliberately try to pray when the sun is rising, or when it is setting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade praying when the sun is rising or setting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Damrah bin Sa'eed that he heard Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri say:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade praying after Subh until the sun had risen, and praying after 'Asr until the sun had set (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ata' bin Yazid that he heard Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri say:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'There is no prayer after Fajr until the sun has clearly risen, and no prayer after 'Asr until the sun has fully set (from eng-nasai.txt)
(Another chain) from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri, from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with a similar report (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade praying after 'Asr (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When the edge of the sun rises, then delay prayer until it has fully risen, and when the edge of the sun starts to set, delay prayer until it has fully set (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)forbade praying after 'Asr unless the sun was still white, clear and high (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hisham said:"My father told me: 'Aishah said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never neglected to pray two Rak'ahs after 'Asr in my house (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Aswad said:'Aishah said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never entered upon me after 'Asr but he prayed them (the two Rak'ahs) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ishaq said:"I heard Masruq and Al-Aswad say: We bear witness that 'Aishah said: 'When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was with me after 'Asr, he would pray them (these two Rak'ahs) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"There are two prayers that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never neglected to pray them in my house secretly nor publicly: Two Rak'ahs before Fajr and two Rak'ahs after 'Asr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) once prayed two Rak'ahs after 'Asr in her house. She asked him about that and he said:"They are two Rak'ahs that I used to pray after Zuhr, but I got distracted and forgot them until I prayed 'Asr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got distracted and did not pray the two Rak'ahs before 'Asr so he prayed them after 'Asr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that Hafsah said:"When the dawn appears, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would only pray two short Rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jubair bin Mut'im that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"O Banu 'Abd Manaf, do not prevent anyone from circumambulating this House and praying at any time he wants of night or day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Al-Madinah, eight together and seven together. He delayed Zuhr and brought 'Asr forward, and he delayed Maghrib and brought 'Isha' forward (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Az-Zuhri said:"Salim told me that his father said: 'I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), when he was in a hurry to travel, delaying Maghrib so that he could combine it with 'Isha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The sun set when the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in Makkah, and he joined the two prayers in Sarif.: [1] [1] A valley about 12 km northeast of Makkah on the way to Al-Madinah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"If the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wanted to travel quickly, he would delay Zuhr until the time of 'Asr and combine them, and he would delay Maghrib until he combined it with 'Isha' when the twilight had disappeared (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that if the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in a hurry to travel, he would combine Maghrib and 'Isha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"If the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was in a hurry to travel, or some emergency arose, he would combine Maghrib and 'Isha (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sufyan said:"I heard Az-Zuhri say: 'Salim told me that his father said: 'I saw the Prophet (ﷺ), if he was in a hurry to travel, joining Maghrib and 'Isha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed Zuhr and 'Asr together, and Maghrib and 'Isha' together, when there was no fear and he was not traveling (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray in Al-Madinah combining two prayer. Joining Zuhr and 'Asr, and Maghrib and 'Isha', when there was no fear nor rain. It was said to him:"Why?" He said: "So that there would not be any hardship on his Ummah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) eight (Rak'ahs) together and seven (Rak'ahs) together (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Yazid that Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari told him, that during the Farewell Pilgrimage. He prayed with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) Maghrib and 'Isha' prayers together at Al-Muzdalifah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Jubair said:"I was with Ibn 'Umar when he departed from 'Arafah. When he came to Jam' (Al-Muzdalifah), he combined Maghrib and 'Isha', and when he finished he said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did similar to this in this place (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed Maghrib and 'Isha' at Al-Muzdalifah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) combine any two prayers except in Al-Muzdalifah, and on that day he prayed Subh before its time (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) which action is most beloved to Allah? He said: 'Establishing prayer on time, honoring one's parents and Jihad in the cause of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever forgets a prayer, let him pray it when he remembers it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about a man who slept and missed the prayer, or forgot it. He said: 'The expiation for that is to pray it when he remembers it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Qatadah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'There is no negligence when one sleeps, rather negligence is when one does not offer one prayer until the time of the next prayer comes and he realizes that he has missed a prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that when they missed the prayer because they slept until the sun rose, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Let any one of you pray it during its time tomorrow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: If you forget a prayer, pray it when you remember it, for Allah says: "and perform the Salah for My remembrance." [1] [1] Ta-Ha 20: (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever forgets a prayer, let him pray it when he remembers it, for Allah says: and perform the Salah for My remembrance." [1] [1] Ta-Ha 20: (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) commanded Bilal to say the phrases of the Adhan twice and the phrases of the Iqamah once (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Mahdhurah that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) taught him the Adhan with nineteen phrases and the Iqamah with seventeen phrases, then Abu Mahdhurah counted them as nineteen and seventeen (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Malik bin Al-Huwairith said:"I came to the Prophet (S.A.W) with a cousin of mine" - on an another occasion he said: "with a companion of mine" - "and he said: 'When the two of you travel, call the Adhan and the Iqamah, and let the older of you lead the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said:"Bilal calls the Adhan during the night, so eat and drink until Ibn Umm Maktum calls (the Adhan) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Prophet (S.A.W) said:"Bilal calls the Adhan during the night, so eat and drink until you hear Ibn Umm Maktoom calling the Adhan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said: 'Bilal calls the Adhan during the night, so eat and drink until Ibn Umm Maktum calls the Adhan." She said: "And there was no more between than the time it takes for one to come down and the other to go up (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Khubaib bin 'Abdur-Rahman that his paternal aunt Unaisah said:"The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said: 'When Ibn Umm Maktum calls the Adhan, eat and drink, and when Bilal calls the Adhan, do not eat nor drink (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Awn bin Abi Juhaifah that his father said:"I came to the Prophet (S.A.W) and Bilal came out and called the Adhan and he started doing like this in his Adhan, turning to his right and left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah, who heard it from the mouth of the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W):"The Mu'adhdhin will be forgiven as far as his voice reaches, and every wet and dry thing will bear witness for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sufyan narrated a similar report with the same chain. (One of the narrators) (Abu) 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasai) said:"It is not Abu Ja'far Al-Farra (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Aswad that Bilal said:"The final words of the Adhan are: 'Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar; La ilaha illallah (Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest, there is none worthy of worship except Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Aswad said:"The final words of the Adhan of Bilal were: 'Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar; La ilaha illallah (Allah is the Greatest, Allah is the Greatest, there is none worthy of worship except Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
(Another chain) from Ibrahim, from Al-Aswad, with similar narration (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muharib bin Dithar said:"Al-Aswad bin Yazid narrated to me from Abu Mahdhurah that the final words of the Adhan are: 'La ilaha illahha (there is none worthy of worship except Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi' that Ibn 'Umar gave a call to prayer on a cold and windy night, and he said:"Pray where you are, for the Prophet (S.A.W)used to order the Mu'adhdhin, if it was a cold and rainy night, to say: 'Pray in your dwellings (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) moved until he came to Al-Muzdalifah, where he prayed Maghrib and 'Isha' with one Adhan and two Iqamahs, and he did not offer any prayer in between them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Jubair that he prayed Maghrib and 'Isha' in Jam' (Muzdalifah) with one Iqamah, then he narrated that Ibn 'Umar had done that, and Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Prophet (S.A.W) had done that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that he prayed in Jam'a with the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) with one Iqamah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Prophet (S.A.W) joined them (Maghrib and 'Isha') in Al-Muzdalifah, and he prayed each of them with an Iqamah, and he did not offer any voluntary prayer before or after either of them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Malik bin Al-Huwayrith said:"The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said to me and to a companion of mine: 'When the time for prayer comes, let the two of you call the Adhan then the two of you say Iqamah, then let one of you lead the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthman bin Abi Al-As said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah (S.A.W), make me the Imam of my people.' He said: 'You are their Imam, so consider the weakest among them and choose a Mu'adhdhin who does not accept any payment for his Adhan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said:"When you hear the call, say what the Mu'adhdhin says (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah bin Sahl said:"I heard Mu'awiyah say: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W), when he heard the Mu'adhdhin, repeating what he said (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ash'ath bin Abi Ash-Sha'tha' that his father said:"I saw Abu Hurairah, when a man passed by in the Masjid until he parted from it - after the call. Abu Hurairah said: 'This man has indeed disobeyed Abu Al-Qasim (S.A.W) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Sakhrah narrated that Abu Ash-Sha'tha' said:"A man left the Masjid after the call to prayer had been given, and Abu Hurairah said: 'This man has indeed disobeyed Abu Al-Qasim (S.A.W) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said: 'When the Iqamah for prayer is said, do not stand up until you see that I have come out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin 'Abasah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever builds a Masjid in which Allah is remembered, Allah, (the Mighty and Sublime) will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"One of the portents of the Hour will be that people will show off in building Masjids (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Zaid said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The area between my house and my Minbar is one of the gardens of Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The columns of this Minbar of mine will be in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to come to Quba' riding and walking." [1] Quba' is about three miles to the south of the Prophet's Masjid. This area is named after in that district (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Umamah bin Sahl bin Hunaif said:"My father said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever goes out to his Masjid - the Masjid of Quba' and prays therein, that will be equivalent to 'Umrah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Mounts are not saddled for except to (travel to) three Masjids: Al-Masjid Al-Haram, this Masjid of mine, and Al-Masjid Al-Aqsa (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"When a man goes out of his house to his Masjid, one foot records a good deed and the other erases a bad deed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When the wife of any one of you asks for permission to go to the Masjid, do not stop her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) performed Tawaf during the Farewell Pilgrimage atop a camel, touching the Rukn [1] with a stick that was bent at the top. [1] The corner of the Ka'bah in which the Black Stone is situated (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade sitting in circles on Friday before Jumu'ah prayer, and buying and selling in the Masjid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) forbade reciting poetry in the Masjid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"A man came making announcement of a lost camel in the Masjid, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'May you never find it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sufyan said:"I said to 'Amr: 'Did you hear Jabir say: "A man passed through the Masjid carrying arrows, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to him: 'Hold then by the blades.'? He said: 'Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sulaiman said:"I heard Ibrahim (narrate) from 'Alqamah and Al-Aswad from 'Abdullah," and he narrated something similar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abbad bin Tamim, from his paternal uncle, that he saw the messenger of Allah (ﷺ) lying on his back in the Masjid, placing one leg on top of the other (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar, that when he was young and single, with no family, at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), he used to sleep in the Masjid of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Spitting in the Masjid is a sin, and its expiation is to bury it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw some sputum on the Qiblah wall. He scrapped it off then he turned to the people and said:"When any one of you is praying, let him not spit in front of him, for Allah is in front of him when he prays (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw some spittle in the Qiblah of the Masjid. He scratched it off with a pebble and forbade a man to spit to his front or to his right. He said:"Let him spit to his left or beneath his left foot (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Tariq bin 'Abdullah Al-Muharibi said:'When you are praying, do not spit to the front or to your right. Spit behind you or to your left if there is no one there, otherwise do this.' And he spat beneath his foot and rubbed it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Al-'Ala' bin Ash-Shikhir that his father said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spit and then rub it with his left foot (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When any one of you enters the Masjid, let him pray two Rak'ahs before he sits down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed bin Al-Mu'alla said:"We used to go to the marketplace in the morning at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and we would pass through the Masjid and pray there (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The angels send Salah upon any one of you so long as he is in the place where he prays, and so long as he does not invalidate his ablution, (saying): 'O Allah, forgive him, O Allah, have mercy on him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sahl As-Sa'idi, may Allah be pleased with him, said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Whoever is in the Masjid waiting for the prayer, he is in a state of prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade praying in the camel pens. [1] A'tan:Kneeling places, or, where they kneel to drink water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The earth has been made for me a place of prostration and a means of purification, so wherever a man of my Ummah is when the time for prayer comes, let him pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Maimunah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray on a mat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying on a donkey, when he was heading toward Khaibar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"The messenger of Allah (peace be upon him) used to pray atop his mount while travelling, facing whatever direction it was facing." (One of the narrators) Malik said: "Abdullah bin Dinar said: and Ibn Umar used to do likewise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"The messenger of Allah (peace be upon him) used to pray atop his mount while traveling, facing whatever direction it was facing, and he would pray witr atop it, but he did not pray the prescribed prayers atop it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aisha(ra) said:"The messenger of Allah(ﷺ) was asked during the campaign of Tabuk about the Sutra of one who is praying. He said: "Something as high as the back of a camel saddle (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Ibn Umar:It was narrated from Ibn Umar concerning the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) he said: "He used to set up a short spear then pray facing toward it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sahl bin Abi Hathmah said:"When anyone of you prays toward a Sutra, let him get close to it and not allow the Shaitan to sever his prayer for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah said:"I aid to Jabir bin Zaid: "What invalidates prayer?" He said: "Ibn Abbas used to say: A menstruating woman and a dog." (One of the narrators)Yahya said: "Shubah said it was a marfu report (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah, may Allah be pleased with her, said:"I was in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he was praying, and when I wanted to leave I did not want to get up and pass in front of him, so I just slipped away slowly and quietly (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Abu Saeed:It was narrated from Abu Saeed that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) said: " If anyone of you is praying, he should not let anyone pass in front of him, and if he insists (on passing) then let him fight him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aisha said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ)used to pray at night while I was lying down sleeping between him and the Qibla on his bed. When he wanted to pray witr he would wake me up and I would pray witr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Marthad al Ghanawi said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ)said: 'Do not pray toward graves and do not sit on them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that someone asked the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) about praying in a single garment, and he said:"Does everyone of you have two garments? (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Umar bin Abi Salamah:It was narrated from Umar bin Abi Salamah that he saw Messenger of Allah(ﷺ)praying in a single garment in the house of Umm Salamah, putting the ends of it on his shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Salamah bin Al-Akwa said:" I said: 'O Messenger of Allah(ﷺ), I go hunting wearing nothing but a single shirt. Can I pray in it?' He said: 'Fasten it to yourself even with a thorn (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sahl bin Sa'd said:"Some men used to pray with Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) tying their lower garments tight like children, it was said to the women: 'Do not raise your heads until the men have sat up completely (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aisha said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ)used to pray at night when I was beside him and I was menstruating, and there was a garment over me, part of which was over Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Huraira said:"The Messenger of Allah(ﷺ)said: 'No one of you should pray in a single garment with no part of it on his shoulder (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uqbah bin Amir said:"A silken Farruj was presented to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he put it on and offered the prayer in it, then when he had finished the prayer he tore it off as if he disliked it and said:'This is not befitting for those who have Taqwa (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aisha (ra) that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ)prayed in a khamisah that had markings, then he said:"These markings distracted me. Take it to Abu Jahm and bring me his Anbijani (a woolen garment with no markings) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Awn bin Abi Juhaifah, from his father that, the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) went out in a red Hullah, and he set up a short spear (Anazah) and prayed facing toward it, while dogs, women and donkeys were passing beyond it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hammam said:"I saw Jarir urinate, then he called for water and performed wudhu, and wiped over his Khuffs, then he stood up and prayed. He was asked about that and he said: 'I saw the Prophet(ﷺ) do exactly like this (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Maslamah - whose name is Saeed bin Yazid, a trustworthy Basri - told us:"I asked Anas bin Malik: 'Did the Prophet (ﷺ) pray in sandals?' He said: 'Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin As Saib that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) prayed on the day of Conquest (of Makkah), and he put his sandals to his left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullih said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'You may live to meet people who will be offering the prayer outside its (prayer) time. If you meet them, then offer the prayer on time, then pray with them and make that a voluntary prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Malik bin Al-Huwairith said:"I came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with a cousin of mine" - once he said, "with a friend of mine" - and he said: 'When you travel, call the Adhan and Iqamah, and let the older of you lead the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"when there are three people let one of them lead the prayer, and the one who is most entitled to lead the prayer is the one who has most knowledge of the Qur'an (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Masud said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'A man should not be led in prayer in his place of authority, and no one should sit in his place of honor except with his permission (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"In the last prayer that the Messenger of Allah(ﷺ) prayed with the people, he prayed wrapped up in a single garment, behind Abu Bakr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aisha that Abu Bakr led the people in prayer and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)was in the row (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Malik bin Al-Huwairith said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'When any one of you visits some people,he should not lead them in prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah that his father said:"The messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When the call to prayer is given, do not stand up until you see me (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Iqamah for prayer was said, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was conversing privately with a man, and did not commence the prayer until the people slept (from eng-nasai.txt)
(Another chain) from Abu Nadrah (from Abu Sa'eed) with similar narration (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in Zuhr prayer and Abu Bakr was behind him. When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the Takbir, Abu Bakr said the Takbir so that the people could hear (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that he and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and his mother, and his maternal aunt (were together). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed, and he told Anas to stand on his right and his mother and maternal aunt behind them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I prayed beside the Prophet (ﷺ) and Ayesha was behind us praying with us, and I was beside the Prophet (ﷺ) praying with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led me and a woman from my family in prayer. He made me to stand on his right and the woman to stand behind us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"I stayed overnight with my maternal aunt Maimunah, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got up to pray at night. I stood on his left, so he did this to me: He took me by the head and made me stand on his right (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say:"Make your rows straight, make your rows straight, make your rows straight. By the One in Whose Hand is my soul! I can see you behind me as I can see you in front of me (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)turned to face us when he stood up to pray, before he said the Takbir and said: 'Make your rows straight and come close to one another, for I can see you behind my back (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Make your rows solid and close together, and keep your necks in line. By the One in Whose Hand is the soul of Muhammad! I can see the shaitan entering through the gaps in the rows as if they are small sheep (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al'Irbad bin Sariyah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to send Salah on the first row three times and on the second row once (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Complete the first row, then the one behind it, and if any row is to be left incomplete let it be the last row (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullih bin 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)said:"Whoever completes a row, may Allah be generous to him, and whoever cuts a row, may Allah cut him off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The best rows for men are the front rows and the worst are the last, and the best rows for women are the back rows and the worst are those in the front (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdul Hamid bin Mahmud said:"We were with Anas and we prayed with one of the Amirs. They pushed us until we stood and prayed between two rows, and Anas started moving backward and said: 'We used to avoid this at the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al Bara said:"When we prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) I liked to be to his right (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ)said:"When any one of you leads the people in prayer, let him make it short, for among them are the sick, the weak and the elderly. And when any one of you prays by himself, let him make it as long as he wishes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to make his prayer very brief but still complete when leading people (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah, from his father that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"I stand in prayer, then I hear a child crying, so I make my prayer brief, because I do not want to cause hardship for his mother (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to enjoin upon us to make the prayer short, but he would lead us in prayer and recite As-Saffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Qatadah said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)leading the people in prayer, carrying Umamah bint Abi Al-As on his shoulder. When he bowed he put her down and when he stood up from prostration he picked her up again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Muhammad (ﷺ) said: 'Does the one who raises his head before the Imam not fear that Allah may turn his head into the head of a donkey? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakr that the Prophet (ﷺ) offered the fear prayer (Salat Al-Khauf). He led those who were behind him in two Rak'ah and those who came (after them) in two Rak'ah, so the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed four Rak'ahs and each group prayed two (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Praying in congregation is twenty-seven times better than praying alone (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Praying in congregation is twenty-five portions better than one of you praying alone (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Prayer in congregation is twenty-five levels better than a prayer offered on one's own (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)said: 'If there are three people, let one of them lead the others in prayer, and the one who has the most right to lead the prayer is the one who recites (knows) the most (Qur'an) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"I prayed beside the Prophet (ﷺ) and Aisha was behind us praying with us, and I was beside the Prophet (ﷺ) praying with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"I prayed with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)and I stood on his left. He took hold of me with his left hand and made me stand on his right (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) turned to face us when he stood up to pray, before he said Takbir, and said: 'Make your rows straight and fill the gaps, for I can see you from behind my back (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If dinner is ready and the Iqamah for prayer is said, then start with dinner first (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Al Malih that his father said:"We were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in Hunain and it rained. The caller of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) called out, telling us: 'Pray where you are (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthman bin 'Affan said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Whoever does wudu' properly, then walks to (attend) the prescribed prayer, and prays with the people or with the congregation or in the Masjid, Allah will forgive him his sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of (ﷺ) said: 'When you come to pray, do not come rushing; come walking in a dignified manner, and whatever you catch up with, pray, and whatever you miss, make it up (from eng-nasai.txt)
(Another chain) with similar from Abu Rafi (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) aid: 'When the Iqamah for prayer is said, there is no prayer except the prescribed prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"When the Iqamah for prayer is said, there is no prayer except the prescribed prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Buhainah said:"The Iqamah for Subh prayer was said, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a man praying while the Mu'adhdhin saying the Iqamah. He said: 'Are you praying Subh with four Rak'ahs? (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to our house and I prayed with an orphan of ours behind him, and Umm Sulaim prayed behind us (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Bakrah narrated that he entered the Masjid when the when the Prophet (ﷺ) was bowing, so he bowed outside the row. The Prophet said:"May Allah increase you in keenness, but do not do this again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed one day then left and said: '0 so-and-so, why don't you improve your prayer? Shouldn't the one who is praying reflection how he prays it for himself? I can see behind me just as I can see in front of me (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Malik bin Al-Huwairith said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), when he started to pray, raise his hands, and when he bowed, and when he raised his head from bowing, until they were parallel with the top of his ears (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdul-Jabbar bin Wa'il, from his father, that:He saw the Prophet (ﷺ), when he started to pray, raise his hands until his thumbs were almost level with his earlobes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Musa bin Umair Al-Anbari and Qais bin Sulaim Al-Anbari said:"Alqamah bin Wa'il told us that his father said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), when he was standing in prayer, holding his left hand with his right (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al Hajjaj bin Abi Zainab said:X"I heard Abu Uthman narrate that Ibn Mas'ud said: 'The Prophet (ﷺ) saw me when I had placed my left hand on my right in prayer. He took hold of my right hand and placed it on my left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade praying with one's hands on one's waist (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ubaidah that:Abdullah saw a man who was praying with his feet together. He said: "He is going against the Sunnah; if he shifted his weight from one to the other that would be better (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah that:He saw a man praying with his feet together. He said: "He is not following the Sunnah. If he were to shift his weight from one to the other I would like that better (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pause briefly when he had started to pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, and Umar, may Allah be pleased with them both, would start their recitation with: "All the praise and thanks be to Allah, the Lord of all that exists (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas:"I prayed with the Prophet (ﷺ) and with Abu Bakr and Umar, may Allah be pleased with them both, and they started with "All the praise and thanks be to Allah, the Lord of all that exists (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in prayer, and we did not hear him recite: In the Name of Allah, the Most Gracious, the Most Merciful. And Abu Bakr and Umar led us in prayer and we did not hear it from them either (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"I prayed behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman, may Allah be pleased with them, and I did not hear any of them say out loud: In the Name of Allah, The Most Gracious, The Most Merciful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ubadah bin As-Samit that :The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "There is no Salah for one who does not recite Fatihatil-Kitab (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ubadah bin As-Samit said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "There is no Salah for one who does not recite Fatihatil-Kitab or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) was given seven oft-recited; the seven long ones (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:Concerning the words of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime: "Seven of Al-Mathani (seven repeatedly-recited): "The seven long ones (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ubadah bin As-Samit said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in one of the prayers in which the recitation is done out loud, and he said: 'None of you should recite when I recite out loud, apart from the Umm Al_quran (Al Fatihah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The Imam is appointed to be followed, so when he says the takbir, say the takbir, and when he recites, be silent (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When the reciter says Amin, then say: "Amin" too, for the angels say Amin and if a person's Amin coincides with the Amin of the angels, Allah will forgive his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "When the reciter says Amin, then say: "Amin" too, for the angels say Amin and if a person's Amin coincides with the Amin of the angels, Allah will forgive his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When the Imam says Amin, say Amin, for if a person's Amin coincides with the Amin of the angels, his previous sins will be forgiven (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If any one of you says: 'Amin' and the angels in Heaven say Amin, and the one coincides with the other, his previous sins will be forgiven (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The one who learns the Quran is like the owner of a hobbled camel. If he pays attention to it, he will keep it, but if he releases it, it will go away (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "It is not right for any one of you to say: 'I have forgotten such and such a verse.' Rather, he has been caused to forget. Study the Qur'an, for it escapes from the heart of man faster than a camel escapes from its fetter (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Abbad narrated that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in teh first rak'ah of Fajr "Say: We believe in Allah and that which has been sent down to us" to the end verse, and in the second rak'ah, "We believe in Allah, and bear witness that we are Muslims (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited: "Say: O you disbelievers" and "Say: He is Allah, (the) One" in the two rak'ahs of Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I would see the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying two rak'ahs of Fajr and making them so brief that I said: 'Did he recite the Umm Al-Kitab in them? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Barzah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite between sixty and one hundred verses in Al-Ghadah (Subh) prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Hisham bint Harithah bin An-Nu'man said:"I only learned :Qaf. By the Glorious Quran.' Behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ); he used to recite it in Subh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ziyad bin Ilaqah said:"I heard my paternal uncle say: 'I prayed Subh with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and in one of the rak'ahs he recited: "And tall date palms, with ranged clusters (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Amr bin Huraith said:"I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting: 'When the sun is wound round.' in fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Uqbah bin Amr that:He asked the Prophet (ﷺ) about Al-Mua'awwidhatain. Uqbah said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in praying Fajr and recited them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite: "Alif-Lam-Mim. The revelation of the Book" and: "Has there not been over man" in Subh prayer on Friday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite: The revelation of the Book and; 'Has there not been over man.' in Subh prayer on Friday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:The Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated in Sad and said: "Dawud did this prostration in repentance and we do it in thanksgiving (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited An-Najm and prostrated during it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah bin Abdur- Rahman that:Abu Hurairah (led them in prayer and) recited: "When the heaven is split asunder." and prostrated during it. When he had finished praying, he told them that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had prostrated during it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated during: 'When the heaven is split asunder (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"We prostrated with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) during: When the heaven is split asunder and Read! In the Name of your Lord (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Abu Hurairah:(Another chain) from Abu Hurairah, with similar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Abu Bakr and Umar prostrated during: 'When the heaven is split asunder,' as did the one who was better than them (the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Abu Bakr and Umar, may Allah be pleased with them both, and the one who was better than them prostrated during 'When the heaven is split asunder' and 'Read! In the name of your Lord (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"I prostrated with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) during; 'When the heaven is split asunder' and 'Read! In the Name of your Lord (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ata said:"Abu Hurairah said: "In should be recitation in every prayer. What the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) made us hear (by reciting out loud) we make you hear, and what he hid from us (by reciting silently) we hide from you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"In every prayer there is recitation. What the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) made us hear (by reciting out loud) we make you hear, and what he hid from us (by reciting silently) we hide from you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' said:"We used to pray Zuhr behind the Prophet (ﷺ) and we heard some of the verses from Surah Luqman and Adh-Dhariyat from him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Iqamah for Zuhr prayer would be said, and a person could go to the Al-Baqi', relieve himself, perform wudhu, and come (to the masjid), and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would still be in the first rak'ah, making it lengthy (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah said:"My father told us that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite Umm Al-Quran and two surahs in the first two rak'ahs of Zuhr and 'Asr, and he would make us hear a verse sometimes, and he used to make the first rak'ah lengthy (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Samurah that :The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite "By the heaven holding the big stars" and: "By the heaven, and At-Tariq (the night-comer, i.e. the bright star)" and similar surahs in Zuhr and 'Asr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite "By the night as it envelops" in Zuhr and something similar in 'Asr, and he would recite something longer than that in subh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that Umm Al-Fadl bint Al-Harith said:" The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in praying maghrib in his house and he recited Al-Mursalat, then after that, he never offered any prayer until he died (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas from his mother that:She heard the Prophet (ﷺ) recite Al-Mursalat in Maghrib (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin Jubair bin Mut'im that:His father said: "I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) recite At-Tur in Maghrib (from eng-nasai.txt)
Mu'awiyah bin Abdullah bin Ja'far narrated that Abdullah bin 'Utbah bin Mas'ud told him that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited 'Ha- Mim Ad-Dukhan' in Maghrib (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited Surat Al-A'raf in maghrib and split it between two rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"I watched the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)- twenty times- reciting in the two rak'ahs after maghrib 'Say: O you disbelievers' and 'Say: He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ayyub that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Say: He is Allah, (the) One" is one-third of the Quran (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Buraidah, from his father, that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite 'By the sun and its brightness' and similar surahs in Isha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' bin Azib said:"I prayed Al-'Atamah (Isha') with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and he recited 'By the gif and the olive' in it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' bin Azib said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was on a journey and he recited: 'By the fig and the olive' in the first rak'ah of isha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:I know the similar surahs that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite, twenty surahs in ten rak'ahs." Then he took 'Alqamah's hand and went in, then 'Alqamah came out and we asked him and he told us what they were (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:A man came to him and said: "Last night I recited Al-Mufassal in one rak'ah." He said: "That is like reciting poetry. But the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite similar surahs, twenty surahs from Al-Mufassal, those that start with Ha-Mim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited Surat Al-Baqarah, Al 'Imran and An-Nisa' in one rak'ah, and he did not reach any verse that spoke of mercy but he asked Allah for it, nor any verse that spoke of punishment but he asked Allah for protection therefrom (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jasrah bint Dijajah said:"I heard Abu Dharr say: 'The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed up all night repeating one verse. The verse was: 'If You punish them, they are Your slaves, and if You forgive them, verily, You, only You, are the All-Mighty, the All-Wise (from eng-nasai.txt)
Umm Hani said:"I used to listen to the Prophet (ﷺ) reciting Quran when I was on my roof (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah said:"I asked Anas: 'How did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recite Quran?' He said: 'He used to elongate the sounds (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bara' said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Make your voices beautiful when you recite Quran (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' bin Azib said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Make your voices beautiful when you recite Quran (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:He heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "Allah never listens to anything as He listens to a Prophet with a beautiful voice chanting the Quran aloud (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, never listens to anything as He listens to a Prophet chanting the Quran (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) heard the recitation of Abu Musa and said: He has been given a Mizmar among the Mazamir of the family of Dawud, peace be upon him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) heard the recitation of Abu Musa and said: 'This man has been given a Mizmar among the Mazamir of the family of Dawud, peace be upon him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) heard the recitation of Abu Musa and said: 'This man has been given a Mizmar among the Mazamir of the family of Dawud, peace be upon him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Malik bin Al-Huwairith said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) raise his hands until they reached the highest part of his ears, when he said the takbir, when he bowed and when he raised his head from bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that:His father said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he started to pray, raise his hands until they were parallel to his shoulders, (and he did that) when he bowed and when he raised his head from bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Alqamah, that Abdullah said:"Shall I not tell you about the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)? He stood and raised his hands the first time and then he did not do that again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The prayer is not valid if a man does not bring his backbone to rest while bowing and prostrating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Be moderate in bowing and prostration, and do not rest your forearms along the ground like a dog (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Alqamah and Al-Aswad said:"We prayed with Abdullah bin Mas'ud in his house. He stood between us and we placed our hands on our knees, but he took them off and made us interlace our fingers, and said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) do that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Mus'ab bin Sa'd said:"I bowed and put my hands together, and my father said: 'This is something that we used to do, then we brought them up to our knees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar said:"It is established for you to hold the knees, so hold the knees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman As-Sulami said:" 'Umar said: 'The Sunnah is to hold the knees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Humaid As-Sa'idi said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) bowed he was balanced, he did not make his head higher or lower than his back, and he put his hands on his knees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade me from wearing A-Qassi and silk, and gold rings, and from reciting Qur'an when bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) forbade me from wearing gold rings, from reciting the Qur'an when bowing, and from wearing Al-Qassi, and clothes dyed with safflower (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me-but I do not say he forbade you- from wearing gold rings, Al-Qassi, and from wearing Al-Mufaddam, and from wearing clothes dyed with safflower, and from reciting Qur'an when bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me from wearing gold rings, and Al-Qassi, and clothes dyed with safflower, and reciting Qur'an while I am bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me from wearing Al-Qassi, and clothes dyed from safflower, and from wearing gold rings, and from reciting Qura'n while bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:"I prayed with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and he bowed and said when bowing: 'Subhana Rabbial-azim (Glory be to my Lord Almighty).' And when prostrating: 'Subhana Rabbial-'Ala (Glory be to my Lord Most High) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) often used to say when bowing and prostrating: 'Subhanaka Rabbana wa bi Hamdika, Allahumm aghfirli (Glorfy and praise be to You, our Lord. O Allah, forgive me) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say when bowing: 'Subbuhun Quddusun Rabbul-mala'ikati war-ruh (Perfect, Most Holy, is the Lord of the angels and the spirit) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah said:"I heard Anas narrate that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Bow and prostrate properly when you bow and prostrate (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Malik bin Al-Huwairith that:He saw the Prophet (ﷺ) raise his hands when he bowed, and when he raised his head from bowing, until they were in level with the highest part of his ears (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah that he said:"Shall I not show you how the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed?" So he prayed, and he only raised his hands once (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) raised his head from bowing, he said: 'Allahumma Rabbana wa lakal-hamd (O Allah, our Lord and to You be the praise) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Bara' bin 'Azib that:The bowing of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and when he raised his head from bowing, and his prostration, and the time between the two prostration, were almost equal in length (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed (saying the) Qunut after bowing for a month, supplicating against Ri'l, Dhakwan and 'Usayyah who had disobeyed Allah and His Messenger." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik was asked:"Did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say the Qunut in Subh prayer?" He said: "Yes." He was asked: "Was that before bowing or after?" He said: "After bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Sirin said:"Some of those who prayed the Subh prayer with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) narrated to me that when he said: Sami'Allahu liman hamidah (Allah hears those who praise Him)' in the second rak'ah, he stood for a while (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Bara' bin 'Azib that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to say the Qunut in Subh and Maghrib. (One of the narrators) 'Ubaidullah said: "Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) used to (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the Qunut for one month, supplicating against one of the 'Arab tribes, then he stopped doing that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the takbir every time he went down and came up, and he would say the Salam to his right and his left. And Abu Bakr and 'Umar used to do likewise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bushr said:"I heard Yusuf-meaning Ibn Mahak- narrating that Hakim said: 'I gave my pledge of allegiance to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), pledging that I would go down (in prostration) only after standing up from bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Malik bin Al-Huwairith that:He saw the Prophet (ﷺ) raise his hands when praying, when he bowed, when he raised his head from bowing, when he prostrated and when he raised his head from prostrating, until they were in level with the top part of his ears (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Malik bin Al-Huwairith that:He saw the Prophet (ﷺ) raise his hands, a similar report (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to raise his hands when he started to pray, and when he bowed, and when he stood up, but he did not do that when he prostrated (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Wa'il bin Hujr said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he prostrated, he lowered his knees before his hands, and when he came up he raised his hands before his knees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Is there any one of you who kneel as a camel kneels when praying? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When one of you prostrates, let him put his hands down before his knees, and not kneel like a camel (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar in a Marfu' report that:The hands prostrate as the face prostrates, so when one of you puts his face down he should put his hands down, and when he raises (the face) he should raise (the hands) too (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) was commanded to prostrate on seven parts of his body and not to tuck up his hair or his garment (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al 'Abbas bin 'Abdul-Muttalib that :He heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "When a person prostrates, seven parts of his body prostrate: his face, his two palms, his two knees and his two feet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"My two eyes saw the traces of water and mud on the forehead and nose of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), from his praying Qiyam on the night of the twenty-first (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I have been commanded to prostrate on seven, and not to tuck up my hair nor my garment: the forehead, the nose, the hands, the knees and the feet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "I have been commanded to prostrate on seven bones: on the forehead"- and he pointed with his hand- "on the nose, the hands, the knees and the ends of the feet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abbas bin 'Abdul-Muttalib that:He heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "When a person prostrates, seven parts of his body prostrate with him: his forehead, his two hands, his two knees and his two feet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Humaid As-Sa'idi said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) fell to the ground during prostration, he held his arms away from his sides and bent his toes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not rest your forearms on the ground like a dog when prostrating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ishaq said:"Al-Bara' described the prostration to us. He places his hands on the ground and raised his posterior and said: 'This is what I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Bara' that:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed he would Jakhkha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Malik bin Buhainah that:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed he held his arms out so much that the whiteness of his armpits appeared (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"If I were in front of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) I would be able to see the whiteness of his armpits." (One of the narrators) Abu Mijlaz said: "It is as if he said that because he was praying (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubaidullah bin Abdullah bin Aqram that his father said:"I prayed with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and I used to see the whiteness of his armpits when he prostrated (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Maimunah that:When the Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated he would hold his arms out from his sides so that if a lamb wanted to pass beneath his arms it would be able to do so (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah said:"I heard Anas (narrate) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Be moderate in prostration and do not rest your forearms along the ground like a dog (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'No prayer is valid in which a man does not maintain his back (at ease) when bowing and prostrating (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Shibl said:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade three things: "Pecking like a crow, resting one's forearms on the ground like a predator, and allocating the same place for prayer like a camel gets used to a certain place (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I have been commanded to prostrate on seven and not to tuck up my hair or garment (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) was commanded to prostrate on seven bones and was forbidden to tuck up his hair and garment (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"When he prayed Zuhr behind the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) we would prostrate on our garments because of the heat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Bow and prostrate properly, for by Allah (SWT) I can see you from behind my back when you bow and prostrate (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade me from reciting the Quran when bowing or prostrating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say when bowing and prostrating: 'Subhanakallahumma, Rabbana wa bihamdik. Allahumma-ghfirli (Glory be to You O Allah, Our Lord, and praise. O Allah, forgive me," following the command of the Quran) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say when bowing and prostrating: 'Subhanaka Allahumma, Rabbana wa bihamdik. Allahumma-ghfirli (Glory be to You O Allah, Our Lord, and praise. O Allah, forgive me," following the command of the Quran) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said when bowing and prostrating: 'Subbuhun Quddusun Rabbul-mala'ikati war'ruh (Perfect, Most Holy, Lord of the Angels and the Spirit) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The closest that a person can be to his Lord, the Mighty and Sublime, is when he is prostrating, so increase in supplication then (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) started to pray he said the takbir and raised his hands, and when he bowed, and after bowing, but he did not raise them between the two prostrations (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Maimunah said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated, he would hold his arms out to his sides, so that the whiteness of his armpits could be seen from behind. And when he sat he rested on his left thigh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' said:"In the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), his bowing, his prostration, standing after he raised his head from bowing and (sitting) between the two prostrations, were almost the same (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the takbir every time he got up, went down, stood and sat. Abu Bakr, 'Umar, and 'Uthman (did likewise) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abi Qibalah said:"Abu Sulaiman Malik bin Al-Huwairith came to our masjid and said: "I want to show you how I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pray.'" He said: "He sat during the first Rak'ah when he raised his head from the second prostration (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Malik bin Al-Huwairith said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pray, and when he was in an odd-numbered rak'ah, he did not get up until he had settled in a sitting position (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Wa'il bin Hujr said:'I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he prostrated, place his knees on the ground before his hands, and when he got up, he lifted his hands before his knees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah :That Abu Hurairah used to lead them in prayer, and he said the takbir when he went down and came up. When he had finished he said: 'By Allah (SWT), I am the one among you whose prayer most closely resembles that of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that his father said:"One of the sunnahs of the prayer is to spread your left foot beneath you, and hold your right foot upright (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Qasim who narrated from 'Abdullah-he is Ibn Abdullah bin 'Umar- that:His father (Ibn 'Umar) said: "One of the sunnahs of the prayer is to hold the right foot upright and point its toes toward the Qiblah, and to sit on the left foot (from eng-nasai.txt)
Amr bin 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair narrated that:His father said: "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat in the second or fourth rak'ah, he would place his hands on his knees and point with his finger (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"In the first two rak'ahs the Prophet (ﷺ) was as if he were on stones heated by fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buhainah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed, then he stood up after two rak'ahs while he was supposed to sit, and he continued his prayer. Then at the end of his prayer, he performed two prostrations before the Salam, then he said the Salam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buhainah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed and stood up following the first two rak'ahs, and they said (SubhanAllah). He carried on, then when he finished his prayer he performed two prostrations, then he said the Salam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Mutarrif bin 'Abdullah said:"Ali bin Abi Talib prayed, and he said the takbir every time he went down and came up, in all movements of the prayer. 'Imran bin Husain said: 'This reminds me of the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Humaid As-Sa'idi that:When the Prophet (ﷺ) stood up following two prostrations, he would say the takbir and raise his hands until they were level with his shoulders, as he had done at the beginning of the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :The Prophet (ﷺ) used to raise his hands when he began to pray, when he wanted to bow, when he raised his head from bowing, and when he stood up after the first two rak'ahs, he would raise his hands likewise, level with his shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came out to us and we were raising our hands during the Salah. He said: 'Why are you raising your hands while praying, like the tails of wild horses? Stay still when you are praying (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Suhaib, the Companion of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"I passed by the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he was praying, and greeted him with Salam. He returned my greeting with a gesture, or maybe it was just with his finger (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ammar bin Yasir that:He greeted the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with the Salam when he was praying, and he returned the greeting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When any one of you stands in prayer, let him not smooth the pebbles, for he is facing Mercy (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Salamah bin 'Abdur-Rahman said:"Mu'aiqib told me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If you have to do that, then do it only once (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "What is the matter with people who lift their gaze to the sky when praying?" And he spoke sternly concerning that until he said: "They must stop that or they will certainly lose their eyesight (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubaidullah bin Abdullah that:A man from among the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) told him that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'If any one of you in praying, let him not lift his gaze to the sky, or his eyesight will be taken away (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with her, said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about looking here and there during prayer. He said: 'That is something that the Shaitan snatches from one's prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from 'Aishah:A similar report was also narrated from 'Aishah, from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from 'Aishah:A similar report was also narrated from 'Aishah, from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu 'Atiyyah said:"Aishah said: 'Turning around during prayer is something that the Shaitan snatches from one's prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to turn to his right and left when praying, but he did not twist his neck to look behind him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded us to kill the two black ones (snakes and scorpions) while praying (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) enjoined killing the two black ones (snakes and scorpions) while praying (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray carrying Umamah. When he prostrated he put her down and when he stood up he picked her up again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Qatadah said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) leading the people in prayer, carrying Umamah bint Abi Al-'As on his shoulder. When he bowed he put her down and when he finished prostrating he picked her up again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The Tasbih is for men, and clapping is for women." Ibn Al-Muthanna added: "During the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab and Abu Salamah bin 'Abdur-Rahman said that:They heard Abu Hurairah say: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The Tasbih is for men and clapping is for women (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The tasbih is for men and clapping is for women (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The tasbih is for men and clapping is for women (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"I had two times when I would enter upon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), one at night and one during the day. When I entered at night he would clear his throat (to tell me to come in) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mutarrif that his father said:"I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) when he was praying, and there was a sound coming from his chest like the sound of water boiling," meaning, he was weeping (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:A Bedouin entered the masjid and prayed two rak'ahs, then he said: "O Allah, have mercy on me and on Muhammad and do not have mercy on anyone else." The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "You have limited something vast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buhainah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up during the prayer when he should have sat, so he prostrated twice while sitting, before the taslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed Zuhr with two rak'ahs, then said the salam. They said: "Has the prayer been shortened?" So he stood up and prayed two rak'ahs, then he said the salam, then he prostrated twice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not prostrate that day either before the salam or after (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prostrated twice after the salam on the day of Dhul-Yadain (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Abu Hurairah:A similar report was narrated from Abu Hurairah from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Prophet (ﷺ) prostrated after the salam when he was not sure (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Imran bin Husain that:The Prophet (ﷺ) led them in prayer and forgot (how many rak'ahs he had prayed), then he prostrated twice, then he said the salam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah and attributed to the Prophet (ﷺ):"If one of you is not sure about his prayer, let him estimate what he thinks is most likely to be correct and complete the prayer on that basis, then let him prostrate twice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If one of you is not sure about his prayer, let him estimate and prostrate twice after he has finished (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Whoever us not sure about his prayer, then let him estimate what is correct, then let him prostrate twice after he finished his prayer, while he is sitting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Whoever has doubt, or is not sure, let him estimate what is correct, then let him prostrate twice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibrahim said:"They used to say: 'If one is not sure of what he estimates is correct, then prostrate twice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin Ja'far said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever has doubt during his prayer, let him prostrate twice after he has said the taslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated 'Abdullah bin Ja'far that :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever has doubt during his prayer, let him prostrate twice after he said the taslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Ja'far that :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever has doubt during his prayer, let him prostrate twice after he said the taslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Ja'far that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever has doubt during his prayer, let him prostrate twice." (One of the narrators) Hajjaj said: "After he has said the taslim." (Another of them) Rawh said: "While he is sitting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you gets up and prays, the Shaitan comes to him an confuses him until he does not know how many (Rak'ahs) he prayed. If any one of you notices that, let him prostrate twice when he is sitting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Prophet(ﷺ) prayed Zuhr with five rak'ahs, and it was said to him: 'Has something been added to the prayer?' He said: 'Why are you asking?' They said: 'You prayed five.' So he turned around and prostrated twice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) led them in praying Zuhr with five (rak'ahs). They said: 'You prayed five.' So he prostrated twice after he had said the taslim, while he was sitting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Humaid As-Sa'idi said:"At the end of the last two rak'ahs of the prayer, the Prophet (ﷺ) would move his left foot forward and sit on his left buttock, Mutawarrikan, then he would say the taslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Wa'il bin Hujr that :He saw the Prophet (ﷺ) sitting during the prayer. He lay his left foot on the ground and placed his forearms on his thighs, and pointed with his forefinger, supplicating with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat during the prayer, he put his hands on his knees and raised the finger that is next to the thumb, and supplicates with it, and his left hand was on his knee laid on it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Malik bin Numair Al-Khuza'I that his father said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) putting his right hand on his right thigh when praying and pointing with his finger (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:A man used to supplicate with two fingers and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Make it one, make it one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa`d who said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed by me when I was supplicating with my fingers and he said: 'Make it one, make it one' and pointed with his forefinger (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amir bin Abdullah bin Az-Zubair, from his father, that:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) sat to say the tashahhud, he placed his left hand on his left thigh and pointed with his forefinger, and his gaze did not go beyond he finger with which he was pointing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "People should certainly stop lifting their gaze to the sky when they supplicate during the prayer, or they will lose their eyesight (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to teach us the tashahhud just as he used to teach us a surah from the Quran (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Allah (SWT) has angels who travel around on Earth conveying to me the Salams of my Ummah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever sends salah upon me once, Allah (SWT) will send salah upon him tenfold (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever sends salah upon me once, Allah (SWT) will send salah upon him tenfold, and will erase ten sins from him, and will raise him ten degrees in status (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say in his prayer, after the tashahhud: "The best of word is the word of Allah (SWT) and the best of guidance is the guidance of Muhammad (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Amr bin Sa'd narrated from his father:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the taslim to his right and to his left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'd said:"I used to see the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying the taslim to his right and to his left until the whiteness of his cheek could be seen (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say the salam to his right so that the whiteness of his cheek could be seen, and to his left so that the whiteness of his cheek could be seen (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said the salam, then he spoke, then he performed two prostrations of forgetfulness (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said the salam then he performed two prostrations of forgetfulness while he was still sitting, then he said the salam." He said: He mentioned it in the hadith of Dhul-Yadain (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Yazid bin Al-Aswad, from his father that:He prayed subh with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and when he finished praying he turned away (from the Qiblah and toward the people) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I used to know that the prayer of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ended by the takbir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uqbah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded me to recite Al-Mu'awwidhat following every prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever says the tasbih one hundred times following the morning prayer, and the tahlil one hundred times, he will be forgiven his sins even if they are like the foam of the sea (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) counting tasbih on his fingers (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed fajr, he would sit in the place where he had prayed until the sun rose (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that As-Suddi said:"I asked Anas bin Malik: 'How should I leave after I have prayed- to the right or to the left?' He said: 'I usually saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) leave to the right (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Aswad said:"Abdullah said: 'No one among you should allow the Shaitan to give him wrong ideas by making him believe that he can only leave after praying by moving to his right, because I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) usually departing to the left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) drink standing and sitting, and he prayed barefoot and with sandals, and he left (after prayer) to the right and to the left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Women used to pray fajr with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and when he said the taslim they would leave, wrapped in their Mirts, unrecognizable because of the darkness (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah, the wife of the Prophet (ﷺ) that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Going to Jumu'ah is obligatory for everyone who has reached the age of puberty (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman Al-A'raj narrated that:He heard Abu Hurairah say: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The best day on which the sun rises is Friday. On this day, Adam, peace be upon him, was created, on this day he was admitted to Paradise, and on this day he was taken out of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When any one of you wants to come to Jumu'ah prayer, let him perform ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Ghusl on Friday is obligatory for everyone who has reached the age of puberty (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Every Muslim man has to perform Ghusl one day in every seven, and that is on Friday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever performs wudu' on Friday, that is all well and good, but whoever performs Ghusl, the Ghusl is better (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Sa'eed, from his father, that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Ghusl should be performed on Friday by everyone who has reached the age of puberty, and using the siwak, and he should put on whatever he is able of using perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Friday is twelve hours in which there is no Muslim slave who asks Allah (SWT) for something but He will give it to him, so seek it in the last hour after 'Asr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ja'far bin Muhammad from his father, from Jabir bin 'Abdullah who said:"We used to pray Jumu'ah with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) then we would go back and tend to our camels." I said: " At what time?" He said: "When the sun had passed its zenith (from eng-nasai.txt)
Iyas bin Salamah bin Al-Akwa' narrated that his father said:"We used to pray Jumu'ah with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) then we would go back, and the walls had no shadow in which shade could be sought (from eng-nasai.txt)
As-Sa'ib bin Yazid said:"The third Adhan was ordered by 'Uthman when the number of people in Al-Madinah increased. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) only had one Adhan, and the Adhan on Friday was when the Imam sat down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Dinar said:"I heard Jabir bin 'Abdullah say: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If any one of you comes and the Imam has appeared, let him pray two Rak'ahs. Shu'bah (one of the narrators) said: "On Friday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Az-Zahiriyah about 'Abdullah bin Busr, he said:"I was sitting beside him on Friday and he said: 'A man came, stepping over people's necks, and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Sit down, you are disturbing people (from eng-nasai.txt)
Amr bin Dinar narrated that:He heard Jabir bin 'Abdullah say: "A man came when the Prophet (ﷺ) was on the minbar on a Friday. He said to him: 'Have you prayed two rak'ahs?' He said: 'No.' He said: 'Pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever says to his companion on Friday, when the imam is delivering the khutbah: 'Listen attentively,' has engaged in idle talk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) delivered a khutbah and said: 'When any one of you wants to go to Jumu'ah, let him perform ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibrahim bin Nashit that:He asked Ibn Shihab about ghusl on Friday. He said: "It is a sunnah; Salim bin 'Abdullah told me, narrating from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) spoke about it from the minbar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Abdullah (from 'Abdullah) Ibn 'Umar that:While he was standing on the minbar, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever among you comes (to prayer) on a Friday, let him perform ghusl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah who said:"While the Prophet (ﷺ) was delivering the khutbah on Friday, a man came and the Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'Have you prayed?' He said: 'No.' He said: Stand up and pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin 'Abdur-Rahman that:The daughter of Harithah bin An-Nu'man said: "I memorized 'Qaf. By the Glorious Qur'an,'" from the mouth of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) when he was on the minbar on Friday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sufyan bin Husain that :Bishr bin Marwan raised his hands on Friday on the minbar, and 'Umarah bin Ruwaibah condemned him and said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did no more than this,' and he pointed with his forefinger (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Abi Awfa said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite a great deal of remembrance, engage little in idle talk, make the prayer long and keep the khutbah short, and he would not refrain from walking with a widow or poor person and tending to their needs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"I sat with the Prophet (ﷺ) and I did not see him deliver the khutbah except standing, and he sat, then he stood up and delivered the second khutbah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to deliver two khutbahs standing, and he would separate them by sitting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver the khutbah standing, then he would sit, then he would stand up and recite some Verses and remember Allah, the Mighty and Sublime. His khutbah was moderate in length and his prayer was moderate in length (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would come down from the minbar and a man would come to him and speak to him, then the Prophet (ﷺ) would listen to him until he gave him an answer, then he would go to his place of prayer and pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :During the Subh prayer on Friday, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite: "Alif-Lam-Mim. The Revelation"(As-Sajdah 32) and: "Has there not been over man,"(Al-Insan 76) and in Jumu'ah prayer he would recite Al-Jumu'ah (62) and Al-Munafiqin (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in Jumu'ah prayer: 'Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High'(Al-A'la 87) and: 'Has there come to you the narration of the overwhelming (i.e. the Day of Resurrection)?"(Al-Ghashiyah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ad-Dahhak bin Qais asked An-Nu'man bin Bashir:"What did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) use to recite on Friday after Surat Al-Jumu'ah?" He said: "He used to recite: 'Has there come to you the narration of the overwhelming (i.e. the Day of Resurrection)?'" (Al-Ghashiyah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever catches up with a rak'ah of Jumu'ah prayer has caught up with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When any one of you prays Jumu'ah let him pray four (rak'ahs) after that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not pray after Jumu'ah until he had left, then he would pray two rak'ahs. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two rak'ahs in his house after Jumu'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that he used to pray two rak'ahs after Jumu'ah, making them lengthy, and he said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to do this (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "On Friday, there is an hour when, if a Muslim slave asks Allah for something at that time, He will give it to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Abu Al-Qasim (ﷺ) said: 'On Friday, there is an hour when, if a Muslim slave stands in prayer and asks Allah for something at that time, He will give it to him.'" He was reducing it: lessening it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) set out from Makkah to Al-Madinah, fearing nothing but the Lord of the worlds, and praying two rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"We used to travel with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) between Makkah and Al-Madinah, fearing nothing but Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, and praying two rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Al-Simt said:"I saw 'Umar bin Al-Khattab praying two rak'ahs in Dhul-Hulaifah and I asked him about that. He said: 'I am simply doing that which I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"I went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) from Al-Madinah to Mekkah, and he continued to shorten his prayers, and he stayed there for ten days (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"I prayed two rak'ahs with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on a journey, and two rak'ahs with Abu Bakr, and two rak'ahs with 'Umar, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with them both (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar said:"The prayer for jumu'ah is two rak'ahs, and for Al-Fitr is two rak'ahs, and for An-Nahr is two rak'ahs, and for traveling is two rak'ahs, complete and not shortened, on the tongue of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The prayer of the resident was enjoined on the tongue of your Prophet (ﷺ), four (rak'ahs), and the prayer of the traveler is two rak'ahs, and the prayer of fear is one rak'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, enjoined the prayer on the tongue of your Prophet (ﷺ): While a resident four (rak'ahs), while traveling two, and at times of fear one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah said:"I heard Muas- bin Salamah-say: 'I said to Ibn 'Abbas: How should I pray in Makkah if I do not pray in congregation? He said: Two rak'ahs, the sunnah of Abu Al-Qasim (from eng-nasai.txt)
Musa bin Salamah narrated that he asked Ibn 'Abbas:"I missed the prayer in congregation when I was in Al-Batha; how do you think I should pray?" He said: "Two rak'ahs, the sunnah of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Harithah bin Wahab Al-Khuza'i said:"I prayed two rak'ahs with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Mina when the people were more secure and greater in number (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Harithah bin Wahab said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in prayer in Mina, two rak'ahs, when the people were greater in number and more secure (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that he said:"I prayed two rak'ahs with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in Mina, and with Abu Bakr and 'Umar, and two rak'ahs with 'Uthman at the beginning of his Caliphate (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah (ﷺ) said:"I prayed two rak'ahs in Mina with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid said:"Uthman prayer four (rak'ahs) in Mina until news of that reached 'Abdullah who said: 'I prayed two rak'ahs with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"I prayed two rak'ahs with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) in Mina, and two rak'ahs with Abu Bakr, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with him, and two rak'ahs with Umar, may Allah (ﷺ) be pleased with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ubaidullah bin 'Abdullah bin Umar narrated that:His father said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed two rak'ahs in Mina, and Abu Bakr prayed two rak'ahs, and Umar prayed two rak'ahs, and Uthman prayed (two rak'ahs) at the beginning of his Khilafah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stayed in Makkah (for fifteen days), praying each prayer with two rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
Al-'Ala bin Al-Hadrami said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The Muhajir may stay for three days after completing his rituals (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-'Ala bin Al-Hadrami said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'The Muhajir may stay for three days after his rituals (from eng-nasai.txt)
Wabarah bin Abdur-Rahman said:"Ibn 'Umar did not offer more than two rak'ahs when traveling, and he did not offer any prayer before or after that. It was said to him: 'What is this?' He said: 'This is what I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) doing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The sun and moon do not become eclipsed for death or birth of anyone, rather they are two of the signs of Allah (SWT) the Most High, so when you see that then pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The sun and the moon do not become eclipsed for the death or birth of anyone, rather they are two of the signs of Allah (SWT), the Mighty and Sublime, so when you see that then pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The sun and moon are two signs of Allah(ﷺ), and they do not become eclipsed for the death or birth of anyone. If you see that then pray until it (the eclipse) is over (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:"We were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) when the sun became eclipsed. He leapt up, dragging his garment and prayed two rak'ahs until the eclipse was over (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Tawus from Ibn Abbas, that :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed when the sun was eclipsed, bowing eight times and prostrating four times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Kathir bin Abbas, from Abdullah bin Abbas that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed on the day the sun was eclipsed, bowing four times in two rak'ahs and prostrating four times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated fom 'Ata from Ibn 'Umair, from Aishah, that:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed, bowing six times and prostrating four times. "I said to Mu'adh: 'Is this from the Prophet (ﷺ)?' He said: 'Without a doubt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed during an eclipse in a shaded area near Zamzam, bowing four times and prostrating four times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from An-Nu'man bin Bashir that :The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "If there is an eclipse of the sun or the moon, pray like the last obligatory prayer you did before that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from An-Nu'man bin Bashir that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed when there was an eclipse of the sun like our prayer, bowing and prostrating (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed two rak'ahs like this prayer of yours, and he mentioned the eclipse of the sun (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed, bowing four times, and he recited loudly, and every time he raised his head he said: "Sami Allahu liman hamidah. Rabbana wa lakal-hamd (Allah hears those who praise Him, Our Lord to You be praise) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) led them in prayer during an eclipse of the sun, and we did not hear him say anything (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) delivered a Khutbah when the sun eclipsed and he said: 'Amma ba'd (to proceed) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Zaid that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed for rain wearing a black khamisah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abbad bin Tamim that :His paternal uncle had told him that he went out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to pray for rain. He turned his rida' around, and turned his back to the people, then he prayed two rak'ahs and recited loudly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abbad bin Tamim, from his paternal uncle that:The Prophet (ﷺ) prayed for rain, and prayed two rak'ahs, and turned his rida' around (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Abi Bakr that:He heard Abbad bin Tamim said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out and prayed for rain, and he turned his rida' around when he turned to the Qiblah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abbad bin Tamim, from his paternal uncle, that:He saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), when he prayed for rain, turn to face the Qiblah, turning his cloak around and raising his hands (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not raise his hands during any supplication except when praying for rain, when he used to raise his hands so high that the whiteness of his armpits could be seen (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abi Al-Lahm that:He saw the Messenger of Allah at Ahjar Az-Zait praying for rain and raising his hands, making supplications (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Allahumma sqina (O Allah, give us rain) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Zaid that:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out to pray for rain, and he prayed two rak'ahs facing the Qiblah. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abbad bin Tamim from his paternal uncle that:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out and prayed for rain, then he prayed two rak'ahs in which he recited loudly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:When it rained the Messenger of Allah would say: "Allahummaj'alhu Sayyiban nafi`a. (O Allah, make it beneficial rain) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, said: I have never sent down My favor to My slaves but a group of them became disbelievers who say; "The stars and by stars (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'If Allah (SWT) were to withhold rain from His slaves for five years and then send it, some of the people would become disbelievers, saying: "We have been given rain by the star of Al-Mijdah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Zaid bin Thabit:A prayer like that of Hudhaifah was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"Allah (SWT) enjoined the prayer on the tongue of your Prophet (ﷺ): four (rak'ahs) while a resident, two rak'ahs while traveling, and one rak'ah during times of fear (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led the people in offering the fear prayer, two rak'ahs. Then he said the taslim and led others in offering the fear prayer, then he said the taslim. So the Prophet (ﷺ) had prayed four rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) led a group of his companions in praying two rak'ahs, then he said the taslim, then he led some others in praying two rak'ahs, then he said the taslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the fear prayer with those who were behind him, praying two rak'ahs (with them) and two rak'ahs with those who came after them, so the Prophet (ﷺ) prayed four rak'ahs and the others each prayed two rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umair bin Anas from his paternal uncles, that :Some people saw the crescent moon and came to the Prophet (ﷺ), and he told them to break their fast after the sun has risen and to go out for 'Eid the (morning of the) following day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Tha'labah bin Zahdam that:'Ali appointed Abu Mas'ud over the people, then went out on the day of 'Eid and said: 'O people, it is not part of the sunnah to pray before the imam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) led us in praying on 'Eid before the Khutbah, with no Adhan and no Iqamah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, 'Umar, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with them, used to offer the 'Eid prayer before the Khutbah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to take out an 'Anazah (a short spear) on the day of Al-Fitr and the day of Al-Adha, plant it in the ground, and pray facing toward it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar bin Al-Khattab said:"The prayer of Al-Adha is two rak'ahs, the prayer of Al-Fitr is two rak'ahs, the prayer of the traveler is two rak'ahs and the jumu'ah prayer is two rak'ahs, complete and not shortened, upon the tongue of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubaidullah bin 'Abdullah said:"Umar, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with him, went out on the day of 'Eid and asked Abu Waqid Al-Laithi: 'What did the Prophet (ﷺ) recite on this day?' He said: 'Qaf' and '(The Hour) has drawn near (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ata said:"I heard Ibn 'Abbas say: 'I bear witness that I attended 'Eid with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ); he started with the prayer before the Khutbah, then he delivered the Khutbah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' bin 'Azib said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) addressed us on the day of An-Nahr after the prayer." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin As-SA'ib that:The Prophet (ﷺ) offered the 'Eid prayer and said: 'Whoever would like to leave, let him leave, and whoever would like to stay for the Khutbah, let him stay (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Rimthah said:"I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the Khutbah, wearing two green Burds (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Khalil Al-Ahmasi said:"I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) delivering the Khutbah atop a she-camel and an Ethiopian was holding on to the camel's reins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Simak said:"I asked Jabir: 'Did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) deliver the Khutbah standing?' He said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to deliver the Khutbah standing, then he would sit for a while, then stand up again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If you say to your companion: 'Be quiet and listen' when the imam is delivering the Khutbah, you have engaged in idle speech (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"I used to pray with the Prophet (ﷺ) and his prayer was moderate in length and his Khutbah was moderate in length (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) used to deliver the Khutbah standing, then he would sit down, then he would stand up and recite some verses and remember Allah (SWT). And his Khutbah was moderate in length, and his prayer was moderate in length (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Prophet (ﷺ) went out on the day of 'Eid and prayed two rak'ahs, and he did not pray before or after them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) addressed us on the day of Al-Adha and went to two black and white rams and slaughtered them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi that:Abdullah (bin Umar) told him that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to offer sacrifice in the prayer place (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Iyas bin Abi Ramlah said:"I heard Mu'awiyah asking Zaid bin Arqam: 'Did you attend two 'Eids with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)?' He said: 'Yes; he prayed 'Eid at the beginning of the day then he granted a concession with regard to jumu'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered upon her and there were two girls with her who were beating the duff. Abu Bakr scolded them, but the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Leave them, for every people has an 'Eid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The black people came and played in front of the Prophet (ﷺ) on the day of 'Eid. He called me and I watched them from over his shoulder, and I continued to watch them until I was the one who moved away (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I remember the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) covering me with his Rida' while I was watching the Ethiopians playing in the masjid, until I got bored. So you should understand the keenness of young girls to play (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Umar came in when the Ethiopians were playing in the masjid. Umar, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with him, rebuked them, but the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Let them be there, O Umar, for they are Banu Arfidah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi' that Abdullah bin Umar said:"Pray in your houses and do not make them like graves (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever prays Qiyam during Ramadan out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever prays Qiyam during Ramadan out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"Mention was made in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about a man who slept all night until morning. He said: 'That is a man in whose ear the Shaitan has urinated (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"A man said: 'O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). So-and-so slept and missed the prayer yesterday until morning came.' He said: 'The Shaitan has urinated in that one's ears (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Humaid bin 'Abdur-Rahman- that is Ibn 'Awf, that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The best fasting after the month of Ramadan is the month of Allah, Al-Muharram, and the best prayer is prayer at night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Masruq said:"I said to 'Aishah: 'Which deed was most beloved to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)?' She said: 'That which was done persistently.' I said: 'At what part of the night did he pray Qiyam?' She said: 'When he heard the rooster (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah that:When the Prophet (ﷺ) got up to pray at night, he would brush his teeth with the siwak (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) got up to pray tahajjud at night, he would brush his teeth with the siwak (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hudhaifah said:"We were commanded to use the siwak when we got up to pray at night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Shaqiq said:"We were commanded, when we got up to pray at night, to clean our mouths with the siwak (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"Every time we wanted to see the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) praying at night we saw him, and every time we wanted to see him sleeping, we saw him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "On the night on which I was taken on the Night Journey (Al-Isra') I came to Musa, peace be upon him, at the red dune, and he was standing, praying in his grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that :The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I came to Musa at the red dune and he was standing and praying (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "I passed by the grave of Musa, peace be upon him, and he was praying in his grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'On the night on which I was taken on the Night Journey, I passed by Musa, peace be upon him, and he was praying in his grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:On the night on which he was taken on the Night Journey, the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by Musa, peace be upon him, and he was praying in his grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
Mu'tamir said:"I heard my father say: I heard Anas say: 'One of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) told me that on the Night Journey, the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by Musa, peace be upon him, and he was praying in his grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas, from on of the companions of the Prophet (ﷺ), that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'On the night on which I was taken on the Night Journey, I passed by Musa and he was praying in his grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Masruq said:"Aishah may Allah (SWT) be pleased with her, said: ' When the last ten nights of Ramadan began, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stayed up at night (for prayer) and he woke his family up and tightened his waist-wrap (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with her, said:"I do not know that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited the whole Qur'an in one night, or spent a whole night in worship until dawn, or that he ever fasted an entire month apart from Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ziyad bin Ilaqah said:"I heard Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah say: 'The Prophet (ﷺ) stood (in prayer at night) until his feet swelled up, and it was said to him: Allah has forgiven your past and future sins. He said: "Should I not be a thankful slave? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray until he developed fissures in his feet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray for a long time at night. If he started to pray standing, he would bow standing and if he started to pray sitting, he would bow sitting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated hat Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray standing and sitting. If he started to pray standing, he would bow standing and if he started to pray sitting, he would bow sitting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pray sitting down until he grew old. Then he would pray sitting down and when there were thirty or forty verses left, he would stand up and recite them, then bow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite sitting, and when he wanted to bow he would stand up for as long as it takes a person to recite forty verses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Aswad, that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not pass away until most of his prayers were offered sitting down, except for the obligatory prayers (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Salamah narrated that Aishah told him:"The Prophet (ﷺ) did not die until most of his prayers were offered sitting down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin Shaqiq said:"I said to Aishah: 'Did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pray sitting down?' She said: 'Yes, after the people had worn him out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hafsah said:"I never saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) offer his voluntary prayers sitting down until one year before his death. Then he used to pray sitting down, reciting the surah so slowly that it seemed to be longer than a surah that is longer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) praying while sitting cross-legged (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin Abi Qais said:"I asked Aishah: "How did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recite at night- did he recite loudly or silently?" She said: 'He used to do both; sometimes he recited loudly and sometimes he recited silently (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Kathir bin Murrah that 'Uqbah bin 'Amir told them that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The one who recites the Qur'an loudly is like one who gives charity openly, and the one who recites the Qur'an silently is like the one who gives charity in secret (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ya'la bin Ata that he heard Ali Al-Azdi (say) that he heard Ibn Umar narrate that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The prayers of the night and day are two by two (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Tawus said:"Ibn Umar said: "A man asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about prayer at night. He said: "Two by two, and if you fear that dawn will come, then one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that :The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Prayers at night are two by two, then if you fear that dawn will come, pray witr with one rak'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the minbar, when he was asked about prayers at night, say: "Two by two, then if you fear that dawn will come, pray witr with one rak'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Umar told them that :A man asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)about prayers at night, and he said: "Two by two, then if one of you fears that dawn will come, let him pray witr with one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "prayers at night are (offered) two by two, then if you fear that dawn will come, pray witr with one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"A man from among the Muslims asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): 'How are prayers at night to be done?' He said: 'prayers at night are (offered) two by two, then if you fear that dawn will come, pray witr with one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin Umar said that:A man asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about prayers at night. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "prayers at night are (offered) two by two, then if you fear that dawn will come, pray witr with one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin Umar said:"A man stood up and said: 'O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), how are the prayers at night to be done?' The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Prayers at night are (offered) two by two, then if you fear that dawn will come, pray witr with one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ali, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "O people of the Qur'an, pray witr, for Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, is Witr (One) and loves Al-Witr (the odd numbered) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ali, may Allah (SWT) be pleased with him, said:"Witr is not essential like the obligatory prayers, but it is the sunnah of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"My dearest friend advised me (to do) three things: 'To sleep after praying Witr, to fast three days each month, and to pray two rak'ahs of Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"My closest friend advised me to do three things: 'To pray witr at the beginning of the night, to pray two rak'ahs of Fajr and to fast three days of each month (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prayed witr at the beginning (of the night) and at the end, and in the middle. And toward the end of his life, he settled on performing witr at the end of the night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Whoever prays during the night, let him make the last of his prayers at night witr, because the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to enjoin that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Nadrah Al-'Awaqi narrated that he heard Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri say:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about witr and he said: 'Pray witr before dawn (Subh) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Au Sa'eed that :The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Pray witr before dawn(fajr) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray witr on his mount (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi' that :Ibn Umar used to pray witr on his camel and he mentioned that the Prophet (ﷺ) used to do that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Yasir said:"Ibn Umar said to me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray witr on a camel (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated fom Ibn Umar that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Witr is one rak'ah at the end of the night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Witr is one rak'ah at the end of the night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:A man from among the people of the desert asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about prayer at night. He said:"(It is) two by two, and Witr is one rak'ah at the end of the night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Prayer at night is two by two, then when you want to finish, pray one rak'h which will make the total number that you prayed odd (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Prayer at night is two by two, and witr is one rak'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:He heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "Prayer at night is two rak'ahs by two rak'ahs, then when you fear tat dawn will break, pray witr with one rak'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray eleven rak'ahs at night, ending them with one rak'ah of witr, then he would lie down on his right side (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'd bin Hisham, that:Aishah told him: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not say the taslim for two rak'ahs during witr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ubayy bin Ka'b said:"In the first rak'ah of witr, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite: "GLorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High;" in the second; "Say: O you disbelievers!" and in the third; "Say: He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ubaidullah bin'Amr bin Zaid narrated from Habib bin Abi Thabit, from Muhammad bin Ali that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) woke up and cleaned his teeth,' and he quoted the hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Bakr An-Nahshali narrated from Habib bin Abi Thabit, from Yahya bin Al-Jazzar, that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray eight rak'ahs at night and pray witr with three, and pray two rak'ahs before Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray witr with thirteen rak'ahs, and when he grew older and weaker he prayed witr with nine (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray nine (rak'ahs) at night, then when he grew older and put on weight he prayed seven (from eng-nasai.txt)
Mansur reported from Al-Hakam, from Miqsam, that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray witr with five and seven rak'ahs which he did not separate with any taslim nor talk (from eng-nasai.txt)
Mansur reported from Al-Hakam, from Miqsam, from Ibn 'Abbas that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray witr with seven or five (rak'ahs), not separating between them with the taslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hisham bin Urwah narrated from his father, from Aishah, that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray witr with five and he did not sit except in the last (rak'ah) of them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray witr with nine rak'ahs, then he would pray two rak'ahs sitting down. When he grew weaker he prayed witr with seven rak'ahs, then he prayed two rak'ahs sitting down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray witr with nine and pray two rak'ahs sitting down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'd bin Hisham:That he came to the Mother of the Believers Aishah and asked her about the prayers of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). She said: "He used to pray eight rak'ahs at night and pray witr with the ninth, then he would pray two rak'ahs sitting down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray nine rak'ahs at night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray eleven rak'ahs at night, of which one was witr, then he would lie down on his right side (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray witr with thirteen rak'ahs, but when he grew older and weaker he prayed witr with nine (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sa'eed bin Abdur-Rahman bin Abza narrated from his father, that:Ubayy bin Ka'b said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in Witr: "Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High;" and "Say: O you disbelievers!;' and 'Say: He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abdur-Rahman bin Abza from his father that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in Witr: "Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High;" and "Say: O you disbelievers!;' and 'Say: He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdul-Malik bin Abi Sulaiman reported from Zubaid, from Sa'eed bin Abdur-Rahman bin Abza, from his father, who said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in witr: Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High;" and "Say: O you disbelievers!;' and 'Say: He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-nasai.txt)
Shu'aib bin Harb reported from Malik, from Zubaid, from Ibn Abza, from his father, who said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in witr: Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High;" and "Say: O you disbelievers!;' and 'Say: He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ahmad bin Sulaiman informed us, he said:"Yahya bin Adam narrated to us, he said: "Malik narrated to us from Zubaid, from Dharr, from Ibn Abza (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ata bin As-Sa'ib reported from Sa'eed bin Abdur-Rahman bin Abza from his father:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in witr: Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High;" and "Say: O you disbelievers!;' and 'Say: He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-nasai.txt)
Muhammad bin Al-Muthanna informed us, he said "Muhammad said:Shu'bah narrated to us, he said: I heard Qatadah narrating from Zurarah, from Abdur-Rahman bin Abza, that The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to recite in witr: Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High (from eng-nasai.txt)
(With that chain) from Imran bin Husain that:The Prophet (ﷺ) recited in Witr: Glorify the Name of your Lord, the Most High (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray eleven rak'ahs at night between finishing Isha' prayer and Fajr, apart from the two rak'ahs of Fajr, and he would prostrate for as long as it takes one of you to recite fifty verses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Abdur-Rahman bin Abza that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to recite in witr and he quoted the same hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) would not omit four rak'ahs before Zuhr and two rak'ahs before Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibrahim bin Muhammad that:He heard his father narrating that he heard Aishah say: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not omit four rak'ahs before Zuhr and two rak'ahs before Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that :The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The two rak'ahs (before) Fajr are better than this world and everything in it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that:When the call for Subh prayer was given, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would pray two brief rak'ahs before going to the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"Hafsah told me that when dawn glowed, the Prophet (ﷺ) would pray two rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"When the Muaddhin fell silent after the Adhan for the beginning of Fajr, he would pray two brief rak'ahs, then he would lie down on his right side (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'Do not be like so-and-so; he used to pray Qiyam Al-Lail then he stopped (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'O Abdullah do not be like so-and-so; he used to pray Qiyam Al-Lail and then he stopped (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray the two rak'ahs of Fajr, two brief rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"Hafsah told me that The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two brief rak'ahs between the call (the Adhan) and the Iqamah for Fajr prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that Hafsah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two brief rak'ahs between the call (the Adhan) and the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah and Nafi', from Ibn Umar, from Hafsah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray two brief rak'ahs between the call (The adhan) and the Iqamah, the two rak'ahs of Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that Hafsah had told him that the:Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two brief rak'ahs between the adhan and the Iqamah of Subh prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Hafsah told me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two rak'ahs beore Subh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that Hafsah told him:"When he was called to Subh prayer, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would do two prostrations before Subh prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that Hafsah, the Mother of the Believers, :Told him that when the Muaddhin fell silent, Allah's Messenger (ﷺ) would pray two brief rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Umar that Hafsah, the Mother of the Believers, told him:that when the Muaddhin fell silent following the call to Subh prayer and dawn had broken, he would pray two brief rak'ahs before getting up to pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"My sister Hafsah told me that he used to pray two brief rak'ahs before Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Umar, from Hafsah, that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two rak'ahs when dawn had broken (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that Hafsah said:"When dawn came, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would not pray anything but two brief rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar, from Hafsah, that:When the call to Subh prayer was given, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would pray two brief rak'ahs before going to pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Umar said:"Hafsah told me that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two brief rak'ahs before Fajr, and that was after dawn had broken (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"Hafsah told me that when dawn glowed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would pray two rak'ahs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to pray two brief rak'ahs between the Adhan and Iqamah for Fajr prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) used to pray two rak'ahs of Fajr when he heard the Adhan and he made them brief (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Az-Zuhri said:"As-Sa'ib bin Yazid told me that Shuraih Al-Hadrami was mentioned in the presence of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "He does not sleep on the Qur'an (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Jubair, from Aishah, that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: and he mentioned something similar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sufyan, that 'Abdah said:"I heard Suwaid bin Ghaflah (narrate it) from Abu Dharr and Abu Ad-Darda (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not pray at night because he was prevented from doing so by sleep- meaning, sleep overwhelmed him- or by pain, he would pray twelve rak'ahs during the day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdur-Rahman bin Abdul-Qari that:Umar bin Al-Khattab said: "(The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said): "Whoever sleeps and misses his nightly portion, and reads it between Subh and Zuhr prayers, it is as if he read it at night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdur-Rahman bin Abdul-Qari that Umar bin Al-Khattab said:"Whoever misses his nightly portion and recites it from the time when the sun passes its zenith until Zuhr prayer, then he did not miss it, or it is as if he caught up with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Humaid bin Abdur-Rahman said:"Whoever misses his Wird at night, let him recite it during prayer before Zuhr, and that will be equivalent to night prayers (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever persists in praying twelve rak'ahs each day and night will enter Paradise: Four before Zuhr and two after, two rak'ahs after Maghrib, two rak'ahs after Isha' and two rak'ahs before Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ata said:"I was told that Umm Habibah bin Abi Sufyan said: "I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs during the day and night, apart from the prescribed prayers, Allah (SWT) will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ata from Anbasah bin Abi Sufyan, that Umm Habibah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs a day, Allah (SWT), the Mighty and Sublime, will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah bint Abi Sufyan said:"Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs in a day and prays before Zuhr, Allah (SWT) will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs, Allah (SWT) will build for him a house in paradise: four before Zuhr and two after, two before Asr, two after Maghrib, and two before Subh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah said:"Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs during the night and day other than the prescribed prayers, a house will be built for him in Paradise: four before Zuhr and two rak'ahs afterward, two before Asr, two after Maghrib and two before Fajr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Habibah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs during the day and night, a house will be built for him in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah said:"Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs during the night and day apart from the prescribed prayers, a house will be built for him in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah said:"Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs during the night and day apart from the prescribed prayers, Allah (SWT), the Mighty and Sublime, will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anbasah bin Abi Sufyan narrated that:Umm Habibah told him: "Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs, a house will be built for him in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs in a day apart from the obligatory prayers, Allah (SWT) will build for him, or there will be built for him, a house in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Habibah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs a day and night, Allah (SWT) will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah said:"Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs in a day, a house will be built for him in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever prays twelve rak'ahs in a day apart from the obligatory prayers, Allah (SWT) will build for him a house in Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Habibah that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to say: "Whoever prays four rak'ahs before Zuhr and four after, Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, will forbid him from the Fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Habibah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever prays four rak'ahs before Zuhr and four after, the Fire will not touch him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"None of you should wish for death. Either he is a doer of good, so perhaps he may do more good, or he is an evildoer but perhaps he will give up his evil ways (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ubaid the freed slave of 'Abdur-Rahman bin Awf that he heard Abu Huraidah say:'None of you should wish for death. Either he is a doer of good, so if he lives he will do more good or he is a doer of evil but perhaps he will give up his evil ways (from eng-nasai.txt)
Qais said:"I entered upon Khabbab when he had been cauterized on his stomach seven times. He said: 'Were it not that the Messenger of Allah forbade us to pray for death, I would have prayed for it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Remember often the destroyer of pleasures."' (Hasan) Abu 'Abdur-Rahaman (An-Nasai) said: Muhammad bin Ibrahim (one of the narrators) is the father of Abu Bakr Ibn Abi Shaibah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Saeed said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Prompt your dying ones to say La ilaha illallah (there is none worthy of worship except Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Prompt your dying ones to say La ilaha illahllah (there is none worthy of worship except Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It is narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buraidah, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah said:"The believer dies with sweat on his forehead (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from (Ibn Buraidah) that his father said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The believer dies with sweat on his forehead (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah died while he was between my chest and my chin, and I never disliked the agony of death for anyone after I saw the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: Allah, the Most High, said: If My slave loves to meet Me, I love to meet him, and if he hates to meet Me, I hate to meet him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubadah that the Prophet said:"Whoever loves to meet Allah, Allah loves to meet him, and whoever hates to meet Allah, Allah hates to meet him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubadah bin As-Samit said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'whoever loves to meet Allah, Allah loves to meet him, and whoever hates to meet Allah, Allah, hates to meet him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:that Abu Bakr kissed the Prophet between the eyes when he had died (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas and Aishah:that Abu Bakr kissed the Prophet when he had died (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"My father was brought on the day of Uhud and he had been mutilated. He was placed in front of the Messenger of Allah covered with a cloth. I wanted to uncover him but my people forbade m (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that Fatimah wept for the Messenger of Allah when he died. She said:"O my father, how close he is now to his Lord! O my father, we announce the news (of his death) to Jibril! O my father, Jannat Al-Firdawas is now his abode (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar, from 'Umar, that the Prophet said:"The deceased is punished due to the weeping of his family for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Subaih said:"I heard Muhammad bin Sirin say: It was mentioned in the presence of 'Imran bin Husain that the deceased is punished due to the weeping of the living.' 'Imran said: "The Messenger of Allah said it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Shihab said:"Salim said: 'I heard 'Abdullah bin 'Umar say: 'Umar said: The Messenger of Allah said: The deceased is punished due to his family's weeping for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hakim bin Qais, that Qais bin 'Asim said:"Do not wail over me, for no one wailed over the Messenger of Allah." This is an abridgment (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The deceased is punished in his grave due to the wailing over him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"Aishah said: Rather the Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah, the Mighty and Sublime increases the punishment of the disbeliever due to some of his family's weeping for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'He is not one of us who strikes his cheeks, rends his garment, calls out the calls of the Jahiliyyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that the Prophet said:"He is not one of us who strikes his cheeks, rends his garment, and calls the calls of the Jahiliyyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that the Prophet said:"He is not one of us who strikes his cheeks, rends his garment, and calls the calls of the Jahiliyyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm 'Abdullah, the wife of Abu Musa, that Abu Musa said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'He is not one of us who shaves his head, raises his voice in lamentation or rends his garments (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Thabit said:"I heard Anas say: 'The Messenger of Allah said: True patience is that which comes at the first blow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever seeks reward for (the loss of) three of his own children, he will enter Paradise." A woman stood up and said: "Or two?" He said: "Or two." The woman said: "I wish that I had said, 'or one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no Muslim, three of whose children die before reaching puberty, but Allah will admit him to Paradise by virtue of His mercy towards them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'sa'ah bin Mu'awiyah said:"I met Abu Dharr and said: 'Tell me a Hadith.' He said: the Messenger of Allah said: There are no two Muslims, three of whose children die before reaching puberty, but Allah will forgive them by virtue of His mercy towards them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"No Muslim, three of whose children die, will be touched by the Fire, except in fulfillment of the (Divine) oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"A woman came to the Messenger of Allah with a son of hers who was ill and said: 'O Messenger of Allah, I fear for him, and I have already lost three.' The Messenger of Allah said: "You have a great protection against the Hellfire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas:that the Messenger of Allah announced the news of the death of Zaid and Ja'far before news of them came. He announced their death and his eyes were overflowing with tears (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Salamah and Ibn Al-Musayyab narrated that Abu Hurairah told them, that:the Messenger of Allah had told them of the death of An-Najashi, the ruler of Ethiopia, on the day that he died, and he said: "Pray for forgiveness for your brother (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ayyub:"I heard Hafsah saying: 'Umm 'Atiyyah said: They tied the hair of the daughter of the Prophet in three braids."' 'I said: Did they undo it, then make three braids? She said: 'Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm 'Atiyyah that:the Messenger of Allah said concerning the washing of his daughter: "Start on the right and the parts that were washed in wudu (from eng-nasai.txt)
Something similar was narrated from Umm 'Atiyyah except, that he (the narrator) said:"Three times or five, or seven, or more than that, if you think that (is necessary) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ayyub narrated from Muhammad, who said:"Hafsah informed me that Umm 'Atiyyah said: 'We put her hair in three braids (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hammad reported from Ayyub:"And Hafsah said, from Umm 'Atiyyah: 'We put her hair in three braids (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Prophet said:"Wear white clothes for they are purer and better, and shroud your dead in them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Prophet was shrouded in three white Suhuli garments (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr heard Jabir say:"And Al-'Abass was in Al-Madinah, and he asked the Ansar for a garment to clothe him in, but they could not find a shirt that would fit him except the shirt of 'Abdullah bin Ubayy, so they clothed him in it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The best of perfume is musk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'One of the best of your perfumes is musk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mihran that Abu Huraiyrah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'When the righteous man is placed on his bier, he says: Take me quickly, take me quickly. And when the bad man is placed on his bier he said: Woe to me! Where are you taking me? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah, who attributed it to the Prophet:"Hasten with the Janazah, for if it was righteous then your are taking it toward something good, and if it was otherwise, then it is an evil of which you are relieving yourselves (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: ,Hsten with the Janazah, for if it was righteous then you are taking it toward something good, and if it was otherwise, then it is an evil of which you are relieving yourselves (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:"I remember when we were with the Messnger of Allah, and we were walking fast with it (the Janazah)." This is the wording of Hushaim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that the Messenger of Allah said:"When a funeral passes by you, stand up, and whoever follows it, let him not sit down until it is put down (in the grave) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amir bin Rabi'ah that the Prophet said:"When any one of you sees a funeral and is not walking with it, let him stand up until it has passed him, or until (the body) is placed (in the grave) before if passes him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated form 'Amir bin Rabi'ah Al-'Adawi that the Messenger of Allah said:"When you see a funeral, stand up until it has passed you, or (the body) is placed (in the grave) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When you see a funeral, stand up, and whoever follows it, let him not sit down until (the body) is placed (in the grave) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah and Abu Sa'eed said:"We never saw the Messenger of Allah attend any funeral where he sat down until (the body) was placed (in the grave) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that a funeral passed by the Messenger of Allah and he stood up. (One of the narrators) 'Amr said:"If a funeral passed by the Messenger of Allah he would stand up (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated form Yazid bin Thabit:That they were sitting with the Messenger of Allah when a funeral appeared. The Messenger of Allah stood up, and those who were with him stood up, until it had passed by (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ma'mar said:"We were with 'Ali and a funeral passed by him, and they stood up for it. 'Ali said: "What is this?' They said: 'The command of Abu Musa.' He said: 'Rather the Messenger of Allah stood up for a Jewish funeral but he did not do it again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad that:a funeral passed by Al-Hasan bin 'Ali and Ibn 'Abbas. Al-Hasan stood up but Ibn 'Abbas did not/ Al-Hasan said: 'Didn't the Messenger of Allah stand up for the funeral of a Jew?' Ibn 'Abbas said: 'Yes, then he sat down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Sirin said:"A funeral passed by Al-Hasan bin 'Ali and Ibn 'Abbas. Al-Hasan stood up but Ibn 'Abbas did not. Al-Hasan said to Ibn 'Abbas: 'Didn't the Messengr of Allah stand up for it?' Ibn 'Abbas said: 'He stood up for it then he sat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas and Al-Hasan bin 'Ali that:a funeral passed by them and one of them stood and the other sat. The one who stood up said: "By Allah, I know that the Messnger of Allah stood up." The one who was sitting said: "I know that the Messenger of Allah sat (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Az-Zubair narrated that he heard Jabir say:"The Prophet and his Companions stood up for the funeral of Jew that passed by him, until it disappeared." (In another narration) Jabir said: "The Prophet and his Companions stood up for the funeral of a Jew until it disappeared (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:a funeral passed by the Messenger of Allah and he stood up. It was said: "It is the funeral of a Jew." He said: "We stood up for the angels (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Something bad was said in the presence of the Prophet about a person who had died. He said: 'Do not say anything but good about your dead (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Do not verbally abuse the dead, for they have reached the consequences of what they did (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Abi Bakr said:"I heard Anas bin Malik say: The Messenger of Allah said: 'The dead person is followed by three: His family, his wealth and his deeds. Then two of them come back: His family and his wealth, and there remain only his deeds (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Al-Mughaffal said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever follows a Janazah until it is finished, he will have two Qirats, and whoever goes back before it is finished, he will have one Qirat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Mughirah bin Shu,bah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: The riders should move behind the Janazah and the pedestrian may walk wherever he wishes, and the (funeral) prayer should be offered for a child (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The rider should travel behind the Janazah and the pedestrian may travel wherever he wishes, and the (funeral) prayer should be offered for a child (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim:That his father saw the Messenger of Allah, Abu Bakr and 'Umar, may Allah be pleased with them, walking in front of the Janazah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Salim narrated:That his father told him that he was the Prophet, Abu Bakr, 'Umar and 'Uthman walking in front of the Janazah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran bin Husain said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Your brother has died, so get up and pray for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah that:the Messenger of Allah said: "The rider should move behind the Janazah and the pedestrian may walk wherever he wishes, and the (funeral) prayer should be offered for a child (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about the children of the idolators and he said: 'Allah knows best what they would have done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about the children of the idolators and he said: 'Allah knows best what they would have done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about the children of the idolators and he said: 'Allah created them when He created them, and He knows best what they would have done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about he children of the idolators and he said: 'Allah knows best what they would have done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Upbah that:the Messenger of Allah went out one day and offered the funeral prayer for the people f Uhd, then he went to the Minbar and said: "I am your predecessor and I am a witness over your (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zaid bin Khalid said:"A man died at Khaibar and the Messenger of Allah said: 'Pray for your companion; he stole from the spoils war.' We inspected his luggage and fund some of the beads of the Jews that were not even worth two Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Samurah that:a man killed himself with an arrowhead and the Messenger of Allah said: "As for me, I will not pray for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah did not ofer gthe funeral prayer for shail bin Baida anywhere but in the Masjid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdul-Wahid bin Hamzah that 'Abbad bin 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair told him that 'Aishah said:"the Messenger of Allah did not offer the funeral prayer for Suhail bin Baida anywhere but inside the Masjid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jair that:the Messenger of Allah said: "Your brother An-Najashi has died, so get up and offer the funeral prayer for him." He stood up and put us in rows as is done for the funeral prayer, and we prayed for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:That the Prophet announced the death of An-Najashi to the people on the day that he died, then he took them out to the prayer place and put them in rows and offered the funeral prayer for him, saying the Takbir four times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah announced the death of An-Najashi to his Companions in Al-Madinah, so they formed rows behind him and he offered the funeral prayer for him, saying the Takbir four times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Messenger of Allah said: "Your brother has died, so get up and offer the funeral prayer for him." So we formed two rows for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"I was in the second row on the day the Messenger of Allah offered the funeral prayer for An-Najashi (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah said:"I offered the funeral prayer with the Messenger of Allah for Umm kab who had died in childbirth, and the Messenger of Allah stood in line at her mid-section to pray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah bin Jundab:That the Messenger of Allah offered the funeral prayer for a mother who had died in childbirth, and he stood in line with her middle (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah announced the death of An-Najashi to the people, and he led thme out and arranged them in rows, and said the Takbir four times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Laila:That Zaid bin Arqam offered the funeral prayer and said the Takbir five times, and said that the Messenger of Allah had said the Takbir like this (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Talhah bin 'Abdullah said:"I offered the funeral prayer behind Ibn 'Abbas and I heard him reciting Fatihat Al-Kitab. When he finished I took him by the hand and asked him. 'Did you recite?' He said: 'Yes, it is the truth and the Sunnah (from eng-nasai.txt)
(It was narrated that Abu Umamah said:"The Sunnah, when offering the funeral prayer, is to recite Umm Al-Qur'an) the Exxence of the Qur'an) quietly in the first Takbir, Then to say three (more) Takbir and to say the Taslim after the last one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated by Ad-Dahhak bin Qais Ad-Dimashqi:A similar report was narrated from Ad-Dahhak bin Qais Ad-Dimashqi (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"No Muslim dies and a group of people whose number reaches one hundred offers the funeral prayer for him, interceding fro him, but their intercession for him will be accepted (from eng-nasai.txt)
(It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever offers the funeral prayer will have one Qirat and whoever stays until )the body) is placed in the Lahd will have two Qirats, and the two Qirats are like two great mountains (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If you see a funeral, then stand up, and whoever follows it, then let him not sit down until (the body) is placed in the grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali bin Abi Talib that:mention was made of standing at the funeral until the body is placed in the grave. 'Ali bin Abi Talib said: "The Messenger of Allah stood, then he sat down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali bin Abi Talib that:mention was made of standing at the funeral until the body is placed in the grave. 'Ali bin Abi Talib said: "The Messenger of Allah stood, then he sat down (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bark' said:"We went out with the Messenger of Allah for a funeral, and when we reached the grave the Lahd had not yet been prepared. He sat, and we sat around him, as if there were birds on our heads (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah:That the Prophet commanded that those who had been killed at Uhud should be taken back to the place where they fell; they had been brought to Al-Madinah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet said:"Bury the slain where they fell (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'd said:"Make a niche for me in the side of the grave and set up (bricks) over me as was done for the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amir bin Sa'd that when Sa'd was dying he said:"Make a niche for me in the side of the grave and set up (bricks) over me as was done for the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Jubair that Ibn 'Abbas said:The Messenger of Allah said: "The niche is for us and the ditch is for others." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"When the Messenger of Allah was buried, a red velvet cloak was placed beneath him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uqbah bin 'Amir Al-Juhani said:"There are three times at which the Messenger of Allah forbade us to pray or to bury our dead: When the sun has risen fully until it is higher, when it reaches its zenith until it has passed the zenith, and when the sun starts to set" (Sahib) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham bin 'Amir that the Messenger of Allah said:"Dig graves and dig them well, and bury two or three (together), and put in first the one who knew the Qur'an most (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Prophet came to 'Abdullah bin Ubayy after he had been placed in his grave, and commanded that he be brought out. He placed him on his knees and blew on him and clothed him in his shirt. And Allah knows best (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Prophet commanded that 'Abdullah bin Ubayy by brought out of his grave, then he placed his head on his knees and blew on him and put his shirt on him." "And he prayed for him. And Allah knows best (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"A man was buried with my father in the same grave and I felt restless until I brought him out and buried him on his own (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sulaiman Ash-Shaibani from Ash-Sha'bi:"Some people passed by an isolated grave with the Messenger of Allah and he led them in prayer and they formed rows behind him." I said: "Who was that O Abu 'Amr?" He said: "Ibn 'Abbas (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ash-Shaibani narrated that Ash-Sha'bi said:"Someone who saw the Prophet pass by an isolated grave told me that he offered the funeral prayer there and his Companions formed rows behind him." It was said: "Who told you this?" He said: "Ibn 'Abbas (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir:That the Prophet prayed at the grave of a woman after she had been buried (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah went our to the funeral of Ibn Ad-Dahdah, and when he came back an unsaddled horse was brought to him, so he rode and we walked with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade building over graves, making them larger or plastering over them." (One of two narrators) Sulaiman bin Musa added: "Or writing on them (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade plastering over graves, building over them or sitting on them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade plastering over graves (from eng-nasai.txt)
Thumamah bin Shufa narrated:"We were with Fadalah bin 'Ubaid in the land of the Romans, and a companion of ours died. Fadalah ordered that his grave be made level, then he said: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah commanding that it be made level (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"Shall I not send you on the same mission as the Messenger of Allah sent me? Do not leave any raised grave without leveling it, or any image in a house without erasing it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"When An-Najashi died, the Prophet said: 'Pray for forgiveness for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah:Said that the Messenger of Allah announced the death of An-Najashi, the ruler of Ethiopia, to them on the day that he died, and said "Pray for forgiveness for your brother (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah cursed women who visit graves, and those who take them as Masjid and put lamps on them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If any one of you were to sit on a live coal until it burns his garment, that would be better for him than sitting on a grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Hazm that the Messenger of Allah said:"do not sit on graves (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that the Prophet said:"May Allah curse people who take the graves of their prophets as Masjids (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"May Allah curse the Jews and Christians who took the graves of their prophets as Masjids." (Sahih) Chpater 107. It Is Disliked to Walk Between Grave Wearing Sibtiyah Sandals (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet said:"when a person is placed in his grave and his companions depart from him, he hears the sound of their sandals (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Rashid bin Sa'd, that a man among the Companions of the Prophet said:"O Messenger of Allah, why will the believers be tested in their graves except the martyr?" He said: "The flashing of the swords above his head is trial enough (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Safwan bin Umayyah said:"The plague, abdominal illness, drowning and dying in childbirth are martyrdom." (One of the narrators) said: Abu 'Uthman narrated this to us several times, and on one occasion he attributed it to the Prophet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:Thos is the one at whose death the Throne shook, the gates of heaven were opened of him and seventy thousand angles attended his funeral. It squeezed him once then released him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that:Al-Bara said about Allah will keep firm those who believe, with the word that stands firm in this world and in the Hereafter "It was revealed concerning the torment of the grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ayyub said:"The Messenger of Allah went out after the sun had set, and heard a sound. He said '(It is ) Jews being tormented in their graves (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah after that seeking refuge with Allah from the torment of the grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that:the Prophet used to seek refuge with Allah from the torment of the grave and the trial of the Dajjal, and he said: "You will be tested in your graves (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"When one of you dies, he is shown his place morning and evening. If he is one of the people of hell it is said: 'This is your place, until Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, raises you up on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ka 'b bin Malik used to narrate that the Messenger of Allah said:"The soul of the belevier is (like a bird) flying among the trees of Paradise, until Allah, the Mighty and sublime, sends it back to his body on the Day of Resurrection." (Da 'if) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Messenger of Allah said: 'The whole of the son of Adam will be consumed by the earth, except for the tailbone, from which he was created and from which he will be created anwe (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah delivering a Khutbah from the Minbar and he said: 'You will meet Allah barefoot, naked and uncircumcised (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"The people will be gathered on the Day of Resurrection naked and uncircumcised. The first one to be clothed will be Ibrahim." Then he recited: As We began the first creation, We shall repeat it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The people will be raised up on the Day of Resurrection barefoot, naked and uncircumcised." 'Aishah said: "What about their 'Awrahs?" he said: "Every man that day will have enough to make him careless of others (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"You will be gathered (one the Day of Resurrection) barefoot and naked." I said: "Men and women looking at one another?" he said: "The matter will be too difficult for people to pay attention to that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"When the month of Ramadan begins, the gates of Paradise are opened and the gates of Hell are shut, and the devils are fettered (from eng-nasai.txt)
It Was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:'When Ramadan begins, the gates of Paradise are opened, the gates of Hell are closed, and the devils are fettered (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said; 'The Messenger of Allah said:'When Ramadan begins, the gates of Paradise are opened, the gates of Hell are closed, and the devils are chained up (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When Ramadan comes, the gates of mercy are opened, the gates of Hell are closed, and the devils are chained up (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurariah said; 'The Messenger of Allah said:'When it is Ramadan, the gates of Paradise are opened, the gates of Hell are closed, and the devils are chained up."' It was narrated by Ibn Ishaq from Az-Zuhri (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated form Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah said:" There has come to you Ramadan in which the gates of Paradise are opened, the gates of the fire are closed and the devils are chained up." (Sahih) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman said: this narration is a mistake (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated Az-Zuhri, from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"When Ramadan begins, the gates of mercy are opened and the gates of Hall are closed, and the devils are chained up (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from abu Bakrah that the Prophet said; 'None of you should say:'I fasted Ramadan' or 'I prayed Qiyam throughout the whole month."' I do not know whether he dislike self-praise or he said: "Inevitably there will be heedlessness and sleep." (Da 'if) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas told us:"The Messenger of Allah said to a woman from among the Ansar: 'When it is Ramadan, perform 'Umrah then, for 'Umrah during it is equivalent to Hajj (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Ikramah:A similar, Mursal, report was narrated from 'Ikramah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Ikramah:A similar, Mursal, report was narrated from 'Ikrimah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"the Messenger of Allah said: 'Fast when you see it and stop fasting when you see it, and if it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then count it as thirty (days) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:: "The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fast when you see it and stop fasting when you see it, and if it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then count it as thirty (days) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of allah sadi:"When you see the crescent then fast, and when you crescent then fast, and when you see it, stop fasting. If it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then fast thirty days (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Umar said:" I heard the messenger of Allah say: 'When you see the crescent then fast, and when you see it, then stop fasting, and if it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then work it out (fro the beginning of the month, to complete thirty days) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah mentioned Ramadan and said:"Do not fast until you see the crescent, and do not stop fasting until you see it, and if it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then work it out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated form Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet said:"D not fast until you see it , and do not stop fasting until you see it, and if it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then work it out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah mentioned the crescent and said: 'When you see it, fast and when you see it, stop fasting, and if it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then count thirty days (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said; 'Fast when you see it and stop fasting when you see it, and if it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then complete thirty (days) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:" I am surprised at those who anticipate the moth, when the Messenger of Allah said: 'When you see the new crescent then fast, and when you see it, then stop fasting, and if it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then complete thirty days (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ribii bin Hirash, from Hudhaifah bin Al-Yaman, that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not anticipate the month until you see the crescent before it, or you complete the number of days. Then fast until you see the new moon, or you complete the number of days (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Fast when you see it, and stop fasting when you see it, and if clouds prevent you from seeing it, then complete the number, and do not fast ahead of Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The Messenger of Allah said: Do not fast before Ramadan. Fast when you see it and stop fasting when you see it, and if clouds prevent you from seeing it, then complete Thirty (Days) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"Jibril, peace be upon him, came to me and said: 'The month is twenty-nine days (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The month is twenty-nine days (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated form Muhammad bin Sad Abi Waqqas, from his father, that:the Prophet struck one hand with the other and said: "The month is like this and like this and like this," retaining one finger the third time (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin Sad that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The month is like this and like this and like this,"' meaning twenty-nine. Yahya bin Saeed and others narrated it from Ismail, from Muhammad bin Sad, from the Prophet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: The month may be twenty-nine days or it may be thirty. When you see it, then stop fasting, and it is obscured from you (too cloudy), then complete the count (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah Ibn ' Umar said:" I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The month is twenty-nine days (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet said:"We are an unlettered Ummah, we do not use astronomical counting or computation. The month is like this, and this, and this," he did three times, showing it as twenty-nine (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The month is twenty-nine (days) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Messenger of Allah said: "The Messenger of Allah said: 'Take Sahur, for in Sahur there is blessing."' 'Ubaidullah bin Saeed narrated it in Mawquaf from (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Take Sahur." 'Ubaidullah said: "I do not know how he said it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Take Sahur, for in Sahur there is blessing." 'Ata said: "someone who heard him told me that Ibn 'Umar (said) that the Prophet said: 'Whoever fasts every day of his life, then he has not fasted (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said; 'Take Sahur, for in Sahur there is blessing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Eat Sahur, for in Sahur there is blessing." (Sahih Mawquf) while Ibn Abi Laila narrated it in Marfu form: (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Take Sahur, for in Sahur there is blessing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said :"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Eat Sahur, for in Sahur there is blessing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zirr said:"We said to Hudhaifah: 'At what time did you take Sahur with the Messenger of Allah?' He said: 'It was daytime, but before the sun had risen." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Silah bin Zufar said:"I had Sahur with Hudhaifah, then we went out to the Masjid. We prayed the two Rakahs of Fajr, then the Iqamah for prayer was made, and we prayed (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hisam reported from Qatadah, from Anas, that Zaid bin Thabir said; "We took Sahur with the Messenger of Allah then we went to pray." I said:"How long was there between them?" He said: "As long as it takes a man to recite fifty verses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that Zaid bin Thabit said:"We had Sahur with the Messenger of Allah then we went to pray." I (one of the narrators) said: "It is claimed that Anas said: 'How long was there between them?' He said: 'As long as it takes a man to recite fifty verses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah and Zaid bin Thabit had Sahur, then they went and started to pray Subh." We said to Anas: "How long was there between their finishing and their starting to pray?" He said: "As long as it takes a man to recite fifty Verses (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Al-Harith narrated that a man from among the Companions of th Prophet said:"I entered upon the Prophet when he was having Sahur. He sadi: 'It is a blessing that Allah has given to you, so do not neglect it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that AL-'Irbad bin Sariyah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah inviting people to have Sahur in Ramadan. He said: 'Come to the blessed breakfast." (Hasan) Chatper 26. Calling Sahur "Ghada" (Breakfast) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Miqdam bin Madikarib that the Prophet said:"You should take Sahur for it is the blessed breakfast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Khalid bin Ma'dan said:"The Messenger of Allah said to a man: 'Come to the blessed breakfast, - meaning Sahur (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Al-As said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The difference between our fasting and the fasting of the people of the Book, is eating Sahur (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Adiyy bin Hatim that:he asked the Messenger of Allah about the verse "Until the white thread (light) of dawn appears to you distinct from the black thread (darkness of night)." He said: "It is the blackness of the night and the whiteness of the day (from eng-nasai.txt)
Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah said; 'DO not be confused by the Adhan of Bilal, or by this whiteness, until dawn appears like this" - meaning horizontally. (One of the narrators) Abu Dawud said: "And he spread out his hands gesturing to the right and left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not fast ahead of the month, except for a man who habitually fasts, and that day happenes to be one of his regular fasts (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messengre of Allah said:"None should fast one or two days ahead of the month except, someone who had a prior habit for fasting, in which case let him fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The messenger of Allah said: 'Do not fast one or two days ahead of the month, unless that happens to be a day that one of you habitually fasts."' Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasai) said: This is a mistake (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah that Umm Salamah said:"U never saw the Messenger of Allah fast two consecutive months, but he used to join shaban to Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to join Shaban to Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah bin 'Abdur-Rahman that he asked Aishah about the fasting of the Messenger of Allah. She said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast until we said: 'He will not fast.' And he used to fast Shaban, or most of Shaban (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah did not fast in any month of the year more than he did in Shaban. He used to fast all of Shaban (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Prophet used to fast Shaban (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I do not know that the Messenger of Allah recited the whole Quran in one night, or prayed Qiyam until morning, or ever fasted an entire month except Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jubair bin Nufair that a man asked Aishah about fasting and she said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast all of Shaban, and he made sure to fast on Mondays and Thursdays (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast Sha`ban and Ramadan, and he made sure to fast on Mondays and Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Silah said:"We were with 'Ammar and a roast sheep was brought and he said: 'Eat.' One of the people turned away and said: 'I am fasting 'Ammar said: Whoever fasts on the day concerning which there is doubt, has disobeyed Abu Al-Qasim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah used to say:"Do not fast one or two days ahead of the month, unless the one who used to observe a regular fast. In that case let him fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Saeed bin Al-Musayyab that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever spends the nights of Ramadan in prayer (Qiyam) out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Salamah bin 'Abdur-Rahman narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say concerning Ramadan: 'Whoever spends its night in prayer (Qiyam) out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Salamah bin 'Abdur-Rahman narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say concerning Ramadan: 'Whoeve spends its nights in prayer (Qiyam) out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Shahab that Abu Salamah told him that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever spends the nights of Ramadan in prayer (Qiyam) out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever spends the nights of Ramadan in prayer (Qiyam) out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever spends the nights of Ramadan n prayer (Qiyam) out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever spends the night of Ramadan in prayer (Qiyam) out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Whoever fasts in Ramadan out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever fasts Ramadan out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever fasts Ramadan out of faith and in the hope of reward, he will be forgiven his previous sins (from eng-nasai.txt)
A similar report was narrated from Abu Salamah and he said:"Whoever fasts it and spends its nights in prayer out of faith and in the hope of reward." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said (that Allah said):"For every good deed that the son of Adam does, he will have (the reward of) ten the like thereof, except for fasting. It is for Me and I shall reward for it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Muhammad bin 'Abdullah bin Abi Yaqub said:"Raja bin Haiwah narrated that Abu Umamah said: 'I came to the Messenger of Allah and said: Tel l me of something that I may take (learn) from you. He said: "Take to fasting, for there is nothing like it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Raja bin Haiwah said:"Abu Umamah Al-Bahili narrated to me: 'I said: O Messenger of Allah, tell me of something by which Allah will benefic me. He said: Take to fasting, for there is nothing like it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Umamah that he asked the Messenger of Allah:"Which deed is best?" he said: "Take to fasting, for there is nothing equal to it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, tell me of an action (I should do).' He said: 'Take to fasting, for there is nothing equal to it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muadh bin Jabal said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fasting is a shield (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muadh bin Jabal said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fasting is a shield (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muadh bin Jabal said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fasting is a shield (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Shubah:"Al-Hakam said to me: 'I heard it from him forty years age; Then Al-Hakam said: 'And Maimum bin Abi Shabib narrated it to me from Muadh bin Jabal." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fasting is a shield."' (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fasting is a shield."' (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Saeed bin Abi Hind said:"Mutarrif entered upon 'Uthman" and he narrated something similar in Mursal from. Abu Hurairah said: "The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fasting is a shield."' (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu 'Ubaidah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Fasting is a shield, so long as you do not damage it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Walid bin Abi Malik said:"Our companions narrated to us that Abu 'Ubaidah said: 'Fasting is a shield, so long as you do not damage it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever among you can afford to get married, let him do so, and whoever cannot afford it should fast, for it will be a restraint (Wija) for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever fasts one day in the cause of Allah, the Mighty and sublime, Allah will remove his face away from the fire in return for the day (the distance of) seventy autumns (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Saeed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever fasts one day in the cause of Allah, Allah will separate between his face and the fire by (a distance of) seventy autumns in return for that day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever fasts one day in the cause of Allah, Allah, the mighty and sublime, will separate his face from the fire by (a distance of)seventy autumns (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa`eed that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever fasts one day in the cause of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, Allah will separate his face from the fire by (a distance of) seventy years (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that An-Numan bin Abi 'Ayyash said:"I heard Abu Saeed Al-Khudri say: 'The Messenger of Allah said: Whoever fasts one day in the cause of Allah will separate his face from the fire by (a distance of) seventy autumns (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Saeed Al-Khudi said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Whoever fasts one day in the cause of Allah, Allah will separate his face from the Fire by (a distance of) seventy autumns (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Saeed Al-khudi said:"The Messenger of Allah: 'There is no worshipper who fasts a day in the cause of Allah, but Allah, the most high, will separate (a distance of) seventy autumns between his face and the fire in return for that day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Saeed Al-Khudri that the Prophet said:"Whoever fasts a day in the cause of Allah, Allah will separate his face from the heat of Hell (a distance of) seventy autumns (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Saeed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: Whoever fasts a day in the cause of Allah, Allah will separate his face (a distance of) seventy autumns from the fire in return for that day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever fasts one day in the cause of Allah, the mighty and sublime, Allah will separate him the distance of one hundred years from the fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Kab bin 'Asim said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say; 'It is not righteousness to fast when traveling (from eng-nasai.txt)
Muhammad bin 'Abdur-Rahman said:"Someone who heard it from Jabir told me something similar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah said:"It is not righteousness to fast when traveling. Take to the concession which Allah, the mighty and sublime, has granted you, accept it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from a man, from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah said:"It is not righteousness to fast when traveling (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Abdullah that:the Messenger of Allah saw a man who was being shaded on a journey. He said: "It is not righteousness to fast when traveling (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Some food was brought to the Messenger of Allah at Marr Az-Zahran, and he said to Abu Bakr and 'Umar: 'Come and eat.' They said: 'We are fasting.' He said: 'Saddle the camels for your companions, and help your companions."'(Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Salamah said:"When the Messenger of Allah was eating breakfast in Marr Az-Zahran, and Abu Bakr and 'Umar were with him, he said: '(Come and eat) breakfast." (Daif) He narrated it in Mursal form (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah:That the Messenger of Allah , Abu Bakr and 'Umar were in Marr Az-Zahran. He narrated it in Mursal from. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Umayyah Ad-Damri narrated:That he came to Prophet, and he mentioned something similar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Oilabah, from a man, that Abu Umayyah told him:That he came to the Prophet from a journey, and he narrated something similar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet said:"Allah has waived meaning half of the prayer and fasting for the traveler, and from pregnant women and the sick. "(Hanas) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Abu Al-Ala bin Ash-Shikhkhir:A similar report was narrated from Abu Al-Ala bin Ash-Shikhkhir, from a man (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf said:"It is said that fasting while traveling is like not fasting while a resident." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf said:"The one who fasts while traveling is like one who does not fast while a resident." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Humaid bin 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf that his father said:"The one who fasts while traveling is like one who does not fast while a resident.' (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:the Prophet went out in Ramadan and fasted until he came to Qudaid, then a cup of milk was brought to him and he drank and broke his fast; he and his Companions (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah fasted from Al-Madinah until he came to Qudaid, then he broke his fast until he reached Makkah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah fasted while traveling until he reached Qudaid, then he called for a cup of milk and drank and broke his fast; he and his Companions (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah traveled during Ramadan and fasted until he reached 'Usfan. Then he called for a vessel and drank during the day when the prople could see him, then he did not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-'Awwam bin Hawshab said:"I said to Mujahid: 'What about fasting while traveling?' He said: 'The Messenger of Allah used to fast (sometimes) and not fast (sometimes) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Mujahid narrated:That the Messenger of Allah fasted during Ramadan and broke his fast when traveling (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hamza bin 'Amr Al-Aslami that:he asked the Messenger of Allah about fasting while traveling. He said: "If," then he said something to the effect that: "If you want, then fast, and if you want, then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sulaiman bin Yasar that Hamzah bin 'Amr said:"O Messenger of Allah." (And he narrated) something similar, in Mursal from (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hamzah said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about fasting while traveling. He said: 'If you wish to fast then fast, and if you wish not to fast then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hamzah bin 'Amr said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about fasting while traveling. He said: 'If you wish to fast then fast, and if you wish not to fast then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hamzah bin 'Amr Al-Aslami said:"O Messenger of Allah, I feel able to fast while traveling." He said: "If you wish then fast and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hamzah bin 'Amr that:he asked the Messenger of Allah about fasting while traveling. He said: "If you wish to fast then fast, and if you wish not to fast then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hamzah bin 'Amr said:"I used to fast continually at the time of the Messenger of Allah. I said: 'O continually while traveling.' He said: 'If you wish then fast, and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hamzah said:"I said: 'O Prophet of Allah, I am a man who fasts continually, so should I fast while traveling?' He said: 'If you wish then fast, and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hamzah bin 'Amr narrated that he asked the Messenger of Allah, and he wsa a man who used to fast while traveling. He said:"If you wish then fast, and if you wish then fast, and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hamzah bin 'Amr Al-Aslami that he asked the Messenger of Allah:"Should I fast while traveling?" He said: "If you wish then fast, and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that Hamzah bin 'Amr said:O Messenger of Allah, I am a man who fasts, so should I fast while traveling? He said: "If you wish then fast, and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Hamzah said to the Messenger of Allah: 'O Messenger of Allah, should I fast while traveling?' He used to fast a great deal. The Messenger of Allah said to him: "If you wish then fast and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Hamzah asked the Messenger of Allah: 'O Messenger of Allah, should I fast while then fast and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that Hamzah Al-Aslami asked the Messenger of Allah about fasting while traveling as he was a man who used to fast continually. He said:"If you wish then fast and if you wish then do not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Saeed said:"We were traveling in Ramadan and among us were some who were fasting and some who were not. Those who were fasting did not criticize those who were not, and those who were not fasting did not criticize those who were (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Saeed said:"We were traveling with the Prophet and among us were some who were fasting and some who were not criticize those who were not, and those who were not fasting did not criticize those who were (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"We traveled with the Messenger of Allah and some of us fasted and some of us did not (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Saeed and Jabir bin 'Abdullah:That they traveled with the Messenger of Allah. Some fasted and some did not, and those who were fasting did not criticize those who were not, and those who were not fasting did not criticize those who were (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger Allah went out in the year of the Conquest, fasting during Ramadan. Then when he was in Al-Kadid, he broke his fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I would own fasts from Ramadan and I would not make them up until Shaban came (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Yazid said:"Salamah told us that the Messenger of Allah said to a man: 'Announce the day of Ashura. Whoever has eaten let him not eat for the rest of the day, and whoever has not eaten, let him fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah came to us one day and we said: 'We have been given some Hais and we set aside some for you.' He said: 'I am fasting, but he broke his fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah, the mother of the Believers, said:"The Messenger of Allah came to me one day and said: 'Do you have anything (to eat) we said: 'No.' he said: 'Then I am fasting (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah came to her and said:"Do you have any food?" and Aishah said: "O Messenger of Allah, we have been given some Hais." So he called for it, and said: "I started the day fasting," then he ate (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mujahid and Umm Kulthum that:the Messenger of Allah entered upon 'Aishah and said: "Do you have any food?" a similar report (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that the Prophet said:"Whoever does not have the intention of fasting before dawn, then there is no fast for him."(Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that the Prophet said:"Whoever does not have the intention of fasting before dawn, then there is no fast for him." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that the Prophet said:"Whoever does not intend to fast before dawn comes, should not fast." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that the Prophet said:"Whoever does not have the intention of fasting from the night before, then there is no fast for him." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that she used to say:"Whoever does not intend to fast from the night before, should not fast." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hamzah bin 'Abdullah bin 'Umar narrated that his father said:"Hafsah, the wife of the Prophet said: 'There is no fast for the one who does not intend (to fast) before dawn (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah that:"There is no fast for one who does not intend (to fast) before dawn (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hafsah that:"There is no fast for the one who does not intend to fast before dawn (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hafsah said:"There is no fast for the one who does not intend to fast before dawn (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hafsah said:"There is no fast for the one who does not intend to fast before dawn." Malik bin Anas narrated it in Mursla from (from eng-nasai.txt)
Something similar was narrated from 'Aishah and Hafsah:"There is no fast except for one who intends to fast before dawn." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"If a man does not intend to fast from the night before, he should not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that he used to say:"None should fast except the one who intended to fast before dawn (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah would not break fast on the days of Al-Bid whether he was a resident or traveling (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah would fast until we said he would not break his fast, and he would not fast until we said he does not want to fast. And he never fasted any month in full apart from Ramadan, from the time he came to Al-Madinah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast until we said: 'He does not want to break his fast.' And he used not to fast until we said: 'He does not want to fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I do not know that the Messenger of Allah recited the whole Quran in one night, or prayed Qiyam until morning, or ever fasted an entire month, except Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aishah said:"The month which the Messenger of Allah most liked to fast was Shaban; indeed he used to join it to Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast until we said: 'He will not break his fast.' And he used not to fast until we said: 'He will not fast.' And I never saw the Messenger of Allah fast more in any month than in Shaban (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah:That the Messenger of Allah would not fast any two consecutive months except Shaban and Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah:That the Prophet would not fast any month of the year in full except Shaban and he used to join it to Ramadan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah did not fast any month more than Shaban; he used to fast (all of) it, or most of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast (all of) Shaban except a little (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jubair bin Nufair that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast all of Shaban (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Usamah bin Zaid:That the Messenger of Allah used to fast continually and it ws said that he would not break his fast, and he used not to fast and it was said that he would not fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrate from Jubair bin Nufair that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to be keen to fast on Mondays and Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to be keen to fast on Mondays and Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to be keen to fast on Mondays and Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to be keen to fast on Mondays and Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to be keen to fast on Mondays and Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast three days of every month: the Monday and Thursday of the first week and the Monday of the following week (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hafsah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast Thursday and Monday of each month, and Monday of the following week (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hafsah said:"When the Messenger of Allah would lie down, he would place his right hand under his right cheek, and he used to fast on Mondays and Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Masud said:"The Messenger of Allah used to fast three days in the middle of every month, and he rarely did not fast on Friday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded me to pray two Rakahs of Duha, and not to sleep until I had prayed witr, and to fast three days each month (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubaidullah that:he heard Ibn 'Abbas, when he was asked about the fast of 'Ashura' say: "I do not know that the Prophet fasted any day because of its virtue, except this day" meaning the month of Ramadan and the day of Ashura (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hunaidah bin Khalid that his wife said:"One of the wives of the Prophet said: "The Prophet used to fast on the day of 'Ashura, nine days of Dhul-Hijjah and three days each month: The first Monday of the month, and two Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever fasts every day of his life, then he has not fasted (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever fasts every day of is life, then he has neither fasted, nor broken the fast (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ata said:"someone who heard him told me that Ibn 'Umar (said) that the Prophet said: 'Whoever fasts every day of his life, then he has not fasted (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ata said:"someone who heard him told me that Ibn 'Umar (said) that the Prophet said: 'Whoever fasts every day of his life, then he has not fasted (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah said to me" and he quoted the same Hadith. 'Ata said: "someone who heard him told me that Ibn 'Umar (said) that the Prophet said: 'Whoever fasts every day of his life, then he has not fasted (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"My beloved Prophet advised me to do three things which I will never give up, if Allah wills. He advised me to pray Duha, to pray Witr before sleeping, and to fast three days of each month (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah enjoyed three things upon me: To sleep after praying Witr, to perform Ghusal on Friday, and to fast three days of each month." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded me to pray two Rakahs of Duah,nt to sleep until after praying Witr and to fast three days of each month. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded me to sleep after praying Witr, to perform Ghusl on Friday and to fast three days of each month." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:" I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The month of patience ( Ramadan) and three days of each month is fasting for a lifetime."' (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever fasts for three days of each month, he has fasted for a whole lifetime.' Then he said: Allah has spoken the truth in His book: Whoever brings a good deed shall have ten times the like thereof to his credit (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu 'Uthman reported from a man, that Abu Dharrr said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: "Whoever fasts three days of each month has fasted the month in full' or 'will have (the reward of) fasting the month."' 'Asim was in doubt (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uthman bin Abi Al-As said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'It is a good fast to fast three days of each month (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Abi Hind said:"Uthman bin Abi Al-As" and he narrated something similar in Mursal form (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Hurr bin Sayyah said:"I heard Ibn 'Umar say" "The Prophet used to fast three days of each month (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah used to fast three days of each month: Monday at the beginning of the month, the following Thursday, then the Thursday after that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hunaidah Al-Khuza'i said:"I entered upon the Mother of the Believers and heard her say: 'The Messenger of Allah used to fast three days of each month: The first Monday of the month, then Thursday, then the following Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hafsah said:"There are four things which the Prophet never gave up: Fasting 'Ashura', (fasting during) the ten days, (fasting) three days of each month, and praying two Rak'ahs before Al-Ghadah (Fajr) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hunaidah bin Khalid, from his wife, from one of the wives of the Prophet, that:the Messenger of Allah used to fast nine days of Dhul-Hijjah, the day of 'Ashura', and three days of each month: The first Monday of the month, and two Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hunaidah bin Khalid, from his wife, that one of the wives of the Prophet said:"The Prophet used to fast the ten (days), and three days of each month: Monday and Thursday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to enjoin fasting three days: The first Thursday, and Monday and Monday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jarir bin 'Abdullah that the Prophet said:"Fasting three days of each month is fasting for a lifetime, and the shining days of Al-Bid, the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded us to fast the three days of Al-Bid, the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded us to fast three days of Al-Bid, the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Musa bin Talhah said:"I heard Abu Dharr, at Ar-Rabadhah, saying: 'The Messenger of Allah said: if you want to fast at any time during the monthm then fast on the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr:That the Prophet commanded a man to fast on the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that a man called 'Abdul-Malik narrated from his father, that:the Messenger of Allah used to enjoin (fasting) these days of Al-Bid and he said: "That is (equivalent to) fasting for the whole month (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdul-Malik bin Abi Al-Minhai narrated from his father that:the Prophet commanded them to fast the three days of Al-Bid. He said: "That is (equivalent to) fasting for the whole month (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdul-Malik bin Qudamah bin Milhan narrated that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah used to command us to fast the three days with the shining bright nights (Al-Ayam Al-Bid), the thirteenth, fourteenth and fifteenth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah said:"No Sadaqah is due on less than five Awsuq,[1] and no Sadaqah is due on less than five Dhawd (head of camel), and no Sadaqah is due on less than five Awaq (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Saeed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah said:"No Sadaqah is due on less than five Dhawd (head of camel), and no Sadaqah is due on less than five Awaq, and no Sadaqah is due on less than five Awsuq (from eng-nasai.txt)
Muadh said:"The Messenger of Allah sent me to Yemen, and he commanded me to take from every forty cows, a cow in its third year, and from every thirty, a Tabi '(two-year-old), and from every person who had reached the age of puberty a Dinar or is equivalent in Maafir." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Abi Awfa said:"When people brought their Zakah to him, the Messenger of Allah would say: 'O Allah, send salah upon the family of so-and-so,' My father brought his Sadaqah to him and he said: 'O Allah, send Salah upon the family of Abu Awfa (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ash-Shabbi said:"Jarir said: 'The Messenger of Allah said: When the Zakah collector comes to you, let him leave happy with you (from eng-nasai.txt)
Muslim bin Thafinah narrated that:Ibn 'Alqamah appointed his father to collect the Zakah of his people - and he quoted the same Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah enjoined giving Sadaqah;"and he narrated something similar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurariah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Muslim does not have to pay Sadaqah on his slave or his horse (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'A Muslim man does not have to pay Zakah on his slave or his horse (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah and attributed to the Prophet:"The Muslim does not have to pay Sadaqah on his slave or his horse (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"A person does not have to pay Sadaqah on his horse or his slave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"The Muslim does not have to pay Sadaqah on his slave or his horse (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"The Muslim does not have to pay Sadaqah on his slave or his horse (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa 'eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah said:"No Sadaqah is due on lessthan five Awsuq of dates, no Sadaqah is due on less than five Awaq of silver, and no Sadaqah is due on less than five Dhawd (head) of camels (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa 'eed Al-Khudri that he heard the Messenger of Allah say:"No Sadaqah is due on less than five Awsaq[2] of dates, no Sadaqah is due on less than five Awaq of silver, and no Sadagah is due on less than five Dhawd (head) of camels (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa 'eed Al-Khudri said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: "No Sadaqah is due on less than five Awsaq of silver, no Sadaqah is due on less than five Dhawd (head) of camels, and no Sadaqah is due on less than five Awsuq of dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali, may Allah e pleased with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'I have exempted you from (having to pay Zakah on) horses and slaves. Pay the Zakah on your wealth, for every two hundred (Dirhams), five (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali, may Allah be pleased with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'I have exempted you from (having to pay Zakah on) houses and slaves, and there is no Zakah on less than two hundred (Dirhams) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Amr bin Shu 'aib said:"A woman came to the Messenger of Allah with a daughter of hers, and on her daughter's arm were two bangles" - a similar report, in Mursal form (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated the Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah said: There is no Sadaqah on less than five Awsaq of grains or dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah said:"No Zakah is due on wheat or dates unless the amount reaches five Awsuq. No Zakah is due on silver unless the amount reaches five Awaq. No Zakah is due on camels until the number reaches five Dhawd (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet said:"No Sadaqah is due on grains or dates unless the amount reaches five Awauq, nor on less than five Dhawd, nor on less than five Awaq (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:The Messenger of Allah said: "No Sadaqah is due on less than five Awaq (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al_khudri that the Prophet said:"No sadaqah is due on less than five Awaq, no Sadaqah is due on less than five Dhawd, no Sadaqah is due on less than five Awsuq (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah said:"For whatever is irrigated by the sky, rivers and springs, or draws up water from deep roots, one-tenth. For whatever is irrigated by animals and artificial means, one half of one-tenth (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah said:'For that which is watered by the sky, rivers and springs, one-tenth. For whatever is irrigated by animals, one-half of one-tenth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Mu'adh said:"The Messenger of Allah sent me to Yemen and he commanded me to take one-tenth of whatever is irrigated by the sky, and half of one-tenth of whatever is irrigated by means of buckets (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Umamah bin Sahl bin Hunaif said:concerning the Verse in which Allah, the Mighty and Subline, says: And do not aim at that which is bad to spend from it." [2] This refers to had quality dates. The Messenger of Allah forbade taking bad quality dates as Sadaqah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"The injuries caused by the beast are without liability, [2] and wells are without liability, and mines are without liability, and the Khumus is due on Rikaz (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah:A similar report was narrated from Abu Hurairah from the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The injuries caused by the best are without liability, and wells are without liability, and mines are without liability, and the Khumus is due on Rikaz (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah said: "The injuries caused by the well are without liability, [1] and beasts are without liability, and mines are without liability, and the Khumus is due on Rikaz (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah enjoined Zakah of Ramadan upon the free and the slave, male and female, a Sa[1] of dates or a Sa of barley, so the people considered that equivalent to half a Sa of wheat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah enjoined Sadaqatul Fitr upon male and female, free and slave; a Sa of dates or a Sa of barley." He said: "The people considered that equivalent to half a Sa of wheat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah enjoined the Zakah of Ramadan on everyone, young and old, free and slave, male and female, a Sa of dates or a Sa of barley (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah enjoined Zakatul-Fitr at the end of Ramadan upon the people; a Sa' of dates or a Sa' of barley, upon everyone, free or slave, male or female, of the Muslims (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah enjoined Zakatul-Fitr, a Sa' of dates or a Sa of barley, upon the free person and the slave, male and female, young and old, among the Muslims. He commanded that it be given before the people went out to the ('fd) prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah enjoined Sadaqatul Fitr upon young and old, male and female, free and slave; a Sa' of dates or a Sa' of barley (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that:Ibn 'Abbas said concerning Sadaqatul-Fitr. "A Sa' of wheat, or a Sa' of dates, or Sa of barley, or a Sa' of rye." (Sahih Mawquf) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Raja' said:I heard Ibn 'Abbas deliver a Khutbah from your Minbar - meaning the Minbar in Al-Basrah - saying: 'Sadaqatul Fitr is a Sa' of food." (Sahih) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasa'i) said: This is the most reliable of the three (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah enjoined Sadaqatul Fitr, a Sa' of barley or a Sa of dates or a Sa' of cottage cheese (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"We used to pay Zakaul Fitr when the Messenger of Allah was among us; a Sa' of food, or a Sa' of barley, or a Sa' of dates, or a Sa' of raisins, or a Sa of cottage cheese (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"At the time of the Messenger of Allah, the people used to give as Sadaqatul Fitr a Sa' of barely or dates or rye or raising (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"At the time of the Messenger of Allah we used to give a Sa' of dates, or a Sa' of barley, or a Sa' of cottage cheese, and we did not give anything else (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The measure (to be used) is the measure of the people of Al-Madinah, and the weight (to be used) is the weight of the people of Makkah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah enjoined that Sadaqatul Fitr should be given before the people go out to pray. (One of the narratorsP: Ibn Bazi'said: "Zakatul-Fitr) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Al-Malib that his father said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, does not accept prayer without purification or charity from Ghulul (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah said, when mentioning charity and those who refrain from asking. "The upper hand is better than the lower hand; the upper hand is that which gives and the lower hand is that which asks (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The best of charity is that which is given when you are self-sufficient, and the upper hand is better than the lower hand, and start with those for whom you are responsible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"When the Messenger of Allah conquered Makkah, he stood up to address the people and said in his Khutbah; 'It is not permissible for a woman to give anything without her husband's permission."' (He narrated it) in abridged from (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"A man said: 'O Messenger of Allah, which kind of charity is best? He said: 'Giving charity when you are in good health, and feeling stingy, hoping for a long life and fearing poverty (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hakim bin Hizam said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The best kind of charity is that which is given when you are rich, and the upper hand is better than the lower hand, and start with those for whom you are responsible (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The best of charity is that which is given when you are self-sufficient, and start with those for whom you are responsible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Mas'ud that the Prophet said:"When a man spends on his family, seeking reward for that, that is an act of charity on his part (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Asma' bint Abi Bakr that the Prophet said to her:"Do not count what you give, otherwise Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, will count what He gives to you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Adiyy bin Hatim that the Prophet said:"Protect yourselves from the Fire, even with half a date (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that the Prophet said:"Intercede and your intercession may be accepted, and Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, decrees on the lips of His Prophet whatsoever He will (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'awiyah bin Sufyan that the Messenger of Allah said:"A man may come and ask for something, and I refuse until you intercede, so that you will be rewarded." And the Messenger of Allah said: "Intercede and you will be rewarded (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"Eat, give charity and clothe yourselves, without being extravagant, and without showing off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir that the Messenger of Allah said:"The one who recites the Qur'an loudly is like one who gives charity openly, and the one who recites the Qur'an quietly is like one who gives charity in secret (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bujaid Al-Ansari from his grandmother that the Messenger of Allah said:"Respond to the one who asks even with a sheep's foot." According to the narration of Harun: "With a sheep's burned foot (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the messenger of Allah said:"The poor man (Miskin) is not the one who leaves if you give him a date or two, or a morsel or two. Rather the poor man is the one who refrains from asking. Recite if you wish: "They do not beg of people at all (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "There are three to whom Allah, it Mighty and Sublime, with not speak on the Day of Resurrection: An old man who commits adultery, a poor man who is arrogant, and an Imam who tells lies (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There are four whom Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, hates: The vendor who sells his wares by means of false oaths, the poor man who shows off, the old man who commits Zina and the Imam who is unjust (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The one who strives to sponsor a widow or a poor person is like the one who strives in Jihad in the cause of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salman bin 'Amir that the Prophet said:"Giving charity to a poor person is charity, and (giving) to a relative is two things, charity and upholding the ties of kinship (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'if one of you were to carry a bundle of firewood on his back and sell it, that would be better than asking a man who may or may not give him something (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah said: ' A man will keep on asking until on the Day of Resurrection he will come without even a shared of skin on his face (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'A'idh bin 'Amr that:a man came to the prophet and asked him and he gave him, and when he placed his foot on the threshold the Messenger of Allah said: "If you knew how bad begging is, no one would go to anyone else and ask him for anything (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Al-Firasi that Al-Firasi said to the Messenger of Allah:"Shall I ask people (for help), O Messenger of Allah?" He said: "No, but if you have no alternative but to ask, then ask the righteous (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Thawban said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever can promise me one thing. Paradise will be his." (One of the narrators) Yahya said: "Here a statement which means: That he will not ask the people for anything (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'awiyah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not be demanding when asking. If one of you asks me for anything and I give it reluctantly, there will be no blessing in it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever asks when he has forty Dirhams I being too demanding when asking (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'It is not permissible to give charity to a rich man (or one who is independent of means) or to one who is strong and healthy (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah bin Jundab said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Begging will be but lacerations on a man's face (on the Day of Resurrection). Unless he asks a man in authority or when he has no alternative (from eng-nasai.txt)
Shu'bah said:"I said to Abu Iyas Mu'awiyah bin Qurrah: 'Did you hear Ans bin Malik say: The Messenger of Allah said: The son of the daughter of a people is one of them? He said: 'Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah said:"The son of the daughter of a people is one of them (from eng-nasai.txt)
Bahz bin Hakim narrated from his father that his grandfather said:"If something was brought to him, the prophet would ask whether it was a gift or charity. If it was said that if was charity, he would not eat, and if it was said that it was a gift, he would stretch forth his hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar that:he gave someone a horse to ride in the cause of Allah, then he saw it offered for sale and wanted to buy it. The Prophet said to him: "Do not think of buying back what you have given in charity (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab:That the Messenger of Allah told 'Attab bin Usaid to estimate the (harvest of) grapes, and to pay Zakah in raisins, just as the Zakah on date palms is given in died dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Razin that he said:"O Messenger of Allah, my fater is an old man and he cannot perform Hajj or 'Umrah, nor can he travel." He said: "Perform Hajj and 'Umrah on behalf of your father."(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Hajj al-Mabrur brings no reward other than Paradise, and from one 'Umrah to another is expiation for what came in between." (Shih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Hajj Al-Mabrur brings no reward other than paradise," the report is the same except that he said, "expiates for what came in between (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that abu Hurairah said:"A man asked the Prophet 'O Messenger of Allah, which deed is best?' He said: 'Jihad in the cause of Allah.' He said: 'Then what?' He said: 'then Hajj Al-Mabrir (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The guests of Allah are three: The ghazi, the Hajj (pilgrim) and the Mu'tamir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of allah said:"Jihad of the elderly, the young, the weak, and women, is Hajj and 'Umarah."(Sahah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever performs pilgrimage to this House, and does not Yarfuth (utter any obscenity or commit sin), will go back as (on the day) his nother bore him.'''(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that abnu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'from one 'Umrah to another is an expiation for what comes in between, and Hajj al-Mabrur brings no reward less than Paradise.'''(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Perform Hajj and 'Umrah consecutively; for they remove poverty and sin as the bellows removes impurity from iron (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Perform Hajj and 'Umrah consecutively, for they remove poverty and sin as the bellows removes impurity from iron and gold and silver, and Hajj Al-Mabrur brings no less a reward than Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:a woman asked the Prophet about her therwho had died and he did not perform Hajj. He said: "Perform Hajj on behalf of your father (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas:(Another chain) with a similar report narrated from Ibn 'Abbas. (sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was nattated from Abu RAzin Al-'Uqayli that he said:"O Messenger of Allah! My father is an old man who cannot perform Hajj or 'Umrah, nor can he travel." He said "Perform Hajj and 'Umrah on behalf of your father (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Az-Zubair that the Prophet said to a man:"You are the oldest son of your father, so perform Hajj on his behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:a woman helf up a child of hers to the Messenger of Allah and said: "O Messenger of Allah, is there Hajj for this one?" He said: "Yes, and you will be rewarded. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"A woman lifted up a child of hers from a howdah (litter) and said: 'O Messenger of Allah, is there Hajj for this one?' He said: 'Yes, and you will be rewarded.'''(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"A woman lifted a child up to the Messenger of Allah and said: 'Is there Hajj for this one?' He said: 'Yes, and you will be rewarded.'''(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah passed by a woman when she was in her seclusion and had a child with her. She said: "Is there Hajj for this one?'' He said: "Yes, and you will be rewarded.''(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:That the Messenger of Allah designated Dhul-Hulaifah as the Miqat for the people of Al-Madinah, Al-Juhfah for the people of Ash-sham and Eguypt, Dhat 'Irq fro the people of al-Iraq, and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah designated Dhul-Hulaifah as the Miqat for the people of Al-Madinah, Al-Juhfah for the people Ash-sham and Egypt, Dhat 'Irq for the people Al-'Iraq, Qarn for the people of Najd and Yalamlam for the people of Yemen (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ubaidullah bin 'Abdullah bin 'Umar narrated that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah stayed overnight in dhul-Hulaifah, where he started his Hajj with this action, and he prayed in the Masjid there.''(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that:when the Messenger of Allah was in Dhul-Hulaifah someone came to him and he was told: "You are in a blessed valley.''(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar:That the Messenger of Allah stopped in the valley that is in Dhul-Hulaifah and prayed there. (sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:the Messenger of Allah prayed Zuhr in Al-Baida then he rode up the mountain of Al-Baida; and began the Talbiyah for Hajj and 'Umrah, when he had prayed Zuhr (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Asma bin 'Umais that:she gave birth to Muhammad bin Abi Bakr As-Siddiq in Al-Baida, Abu Bakr told the Messenger of Allah about that, and he said: "Tell her to perform Gusl then begin the Talbiyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade the Muhrim to wear clothes dyed with saffron or Wars (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said; "I heard the Prophet delivering a khutbah and he said:'Pants (are allowed) for one who cannot find an Izar, and Khuffs for one who cannot find sandals to wear in Ihram.;; (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said; "I heard the Messenger of Allah say:'Whoever cannot find an Izar, let him wear pants, and whoever cannot find sandals, let him wear khuffs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"I heard the Prophet say; 'do not wear shirts, or pants, or 'Imamahs, or burnouses, or Khuffs while in Ihram.'''(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say; 'If you cannot find an Izar then wear pants, and if you cannot find sandals then wear khuffs, but cut them so that they come lower than the ankles (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar:That the Prophet said "If a Muhrim cannot find sandals then let him wear Khuffs, and cut them, so that they come lower than the ankles (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah entering Ihram with his hair matted (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I put perfume on the Messenger of Allah when he decided to enter Ihram, and when he exited Ihram, before he exited Ihram, with my own hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I put perfume on the Messenger of Allah for his Ihram when he entered Ihram, and for his exiting Ihram when he had stoned Jamrat Al-Aqabah, before he circumambulated the House (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I put perfume on the Messenger of Allah for his Ihram before he entered Ihram, and for his exiting Ihram when he exited Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I put perfume on the Messenger of Allah for his Ihram when he entered Ihram, and for his exiting Ihram when he had stoned Jamrat Al-Aqabah, before he circumambulated the House (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I put perfume on the Messenger of Allah for his exiting Ihram, and I put perfume on him for his Ihram, perfume which was not like this perfume of yours" she meant that it does not last.(Shah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uthman bin 'Urwah narrated that his father said:"I said to 'Aishah: 'What kind of perfume did you put on the Messenger of Allah?' she said: 'The best kind of perfume, when he entered Ihram and when he exited Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to put perfume on the Messenger of Allah when he entered Ihram, using the best perfume I could find (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to put perfume on the Messenger of Allah using the best I could find, when he entered Ihram and when he exited Ihram, and when he wanted to visit the House (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Qasim said:"'Aishah said: 'I put perfume on the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) before he entered Ihram and on the Day of Sacrifice before he circumambulated the House, using perfume containing musk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The glistening of the perfume could be seen in the parting (of the hair) of the Messenger of Allah while he was in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"It is as if I can see the glistening of the perfume on the head of the Messenger of Allah while he is in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:" I used to see the glistening of the perfume at the roots of the hair of the Messenger of Allah when he was in Ihram.(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"It is as if I can see the glistening of the perfume in the parting on the head of the Messenger of Allah when he was in Ihram.(Shah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I saw the glistening of the perfume on the head of the Messenger of Allah while he was initiating Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"It is as if I can see the glistening of the perfume in parting of the Messenger of Allah while he was in Ihram. (sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"When the Prophet and (in his narration) Hannad said: "The Messenger of Allah "wanted to enter Ihram, he would daub the best perfume that he could find, until I saw it glistening on his head and in his beard. (sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I used to put perfume on the Messenger of Allah using the best perfume I could find, until I saw the perfume glistening on his head and in his beard, before he entered Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:'I saw the glistening of the perfume in the parting of the Messenger of Allah after three (days) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:'I used to see the glistening of the perfume in the parting of the Messenger of Allah after three (days) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas Said:"The Prophet forbade men to perfume themselves with saffron. (Shahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade perfuming oneself with saffron (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said that:the Messenger of Allah forbade perfuming oneself with saffron". Hammad said: "Meaning, for men (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abn bin 'Uthman that his father said:'the messenger of Allah said concerning a Muhrim whose head or yes hurt: 'Let him smudge them with aloes, (sahih): (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas Said:" A man died, and the Messenger of Allah said: wash him with water and lotus leaves, and shroud him in his cloths, but do not cover his head and face, for he will be raised on the Day of Resurrection reciting the Talbiyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:the Messenger of Allah performed Hajj only (Ifrad) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered Ihram for Hajj (only) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"We went out with the Messenger of Allah around the time of the new moon of Dhul-Hijjah, and the Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever wishes to enter Ihram for Hajj, let him do so , and whoever wishes to enter Ihram for 'Umrah, let him do so (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"We set out with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) thinking that it was for nothing other than Hajj (from eng-nasai.txt)
(Another chain) that shaqiq said; a "As-Subai told us something similar, and he said:'I came to 'Umar and told him the story, apart from the words: 'Hey you (from eng-nasai.txt)
Shu'bah narrated:A similar report was narrated from Shu'bah with the same chain (from eng-nasai.txt)
Imran bin Husain said:"The Messenger of Allah combined Hajj and "Umrah, then he passed away before he could forbid that, and before Qur'an was revealed forbidding it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran:That the Messenger of Allah combined Hajj and "Umrah, then no Qur'an was revealed concerning that, and the Prophet did not forbid it, regardless of what one man may say (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah 'Labbaika 'Umratan wa Hajjan ma'an, Iabbaika 'Umratan wa Hajjan ma'an (Here I am (O Allah) for "Umrah and Hajj together, here I am (O Allah) for "Umrah and Hajj together (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting the Talbiyah for them both (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I heard 'Umar say" 'By Allah, I forbid you to forbid you to perform Tamattur,' but it is mentioned in the Book of Allah and the Messenger of Allah did it" meaning 'Umrah with Hajj (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Tawus said:"Mu'awiyah saide to Ibmn 'Abbas: "do you know that I cut the hair of the Messenger of Allah at Al-Marwah?" He said: "No." Ibn 'Abbas said: "This Mu'awiyah forbids the people to perform Tamattu' but the Prophet performed Tamattue (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Mutarrif said:"Imran bin Husain said to me; 'The Messenger of Allah performed 'Umrah and Hajj together, and we performed 'Umrah and Hajj together with him, and whoever says anything different, that is his own personal opinion (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"Ali came from collecting Zakah and the Prophet said to him: "For what have you entered Ihram, O 'Ali?' he said: 'For that for which the Messenger of Allah entered Ihram.' He said: 'Then offer the Hadi and remain in Ihram as you are.' So 'Ali offered a Hadi (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Khallad bin As-Sa'ib, from his father that the Messenger of Allah said:"Jibril came to me and said: 'O Muhammad! Tell your Companions to rise their voices when reciting the Talbiyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas:That the Messenger of Allah began the Talbiyah following the prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas:That the Messenger of Allah prayed Zuhr in Al-Baida', then he mounted and rode up the mountain of Al-Baida', and he began the Talbiyah for Hajj and 'Umar when he had prayed Zuhr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir:Concerning the Hajj of the Prophet, that when he came to Dhul-Hulaifah, he prayed and then he remained silent until he came to Al-Baida (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that he heard his father say:"This baida' of yours where you are telling lies about the Messenger of Allah; the Messenger of Allah never began the Talbiyah except from the Masjid at Dhul-Hulaifah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Shihab that Salim bin 'Abdullah told him that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah riding his mount in Dhul-Hulaifah, then he began the Talbiyah when it stood up with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar:That he used to narrate that the Prophet began the Talbiyah when his mount stood up with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubaid bin Jraij said:"I said to Ibn 'Umar: 'I saw you begin the Talbiyah when your she-camel stood up with you. He said: "The Messenger of Allah used to begin the Talbiyah when his she-camel stood up with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"Asma' bint 'Umais gave birth to Muhammad bin Abi Bakr and she sent word to the Messenger of Allah asking him what she should do. He told here to perform Ghusl and wrap her private parts in a cloth, and to begin the talbiyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas:That Duba'ah wanted to perform Hajj, so the Prophet Told here to stipulate a condition, and she acted upon the command of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah:That the Messenger of Allah marked his Budn (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That the Prophet marked his Budn on the right side and the blood flowed down and marked it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That when the Prophet was in Dhul-Hulaifah he ordered that his Budn be marked on the right side of its hump, then he wiped the blood on it and he garlanded it with two shoes, then when it stood up with him Al-baida; he began the Talbiyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to send the Hadi from Al-Madinah, and I would twist the garlands for his Hadi, then he did not avoid anything that the person in Ihram avoids (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I used to twist the garlands for the Hadi of the Messenger of Allah, then he would send them, then he would do whatever the non-Muhrim does before the Hadi reached its place (of sacrifice) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I used to twist the garlands of the Hadi of the Messenger of Allah, then he would stay with his family and not enter Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I used to twist the garlands of the Hadi of the Messenger of Allah, then he would garland his Hadi, then sent it, they stay (with his family) and not avoid anything that the Muhrim avoids (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I remember twisting the garlands for the sheep, the Hadi of the Messenger of Allah, then he stayed as a non-Muhrim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Qasim that the Mother of the Believers said:"I twisted those garlands from wool that we had, then the following morning he did what any non-Muhrim does with his wife, what any man does with his wife (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I twisted the garlands of the Budn of the Messenger of Allah with my own hands, then he garlanded it and marked it, and directed it toward the House and sent it. But he stayed with his family, and nothing became forbidden for him that was allowed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I twisted the garlands for the Budn of the Messenger of Allah, then he did not enter at state of Ihram or abandon any kind of regular clothing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I used to twist the garlands for the sacrificial sheep of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah:That the Messenger of Allah used to send sheep as a Hadi (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah:That on one occasion the Messenger of Allah sent sheep as a Hadi and garlanded them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I sued to twist the garlands of the sacrificial sheep of the Messenger of Allah. Then he did not enter a state of Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I used to twist the garlands of sacrificial sheep of the Messenger of Allah. Then he did not enter a state of Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"We used to garland the sheep, then the Messenger of Allah would send it, and he would not enter a state of Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir:That when they were present with the Messenger of Allah in Al-Madinah, he sent the Hadi, and whoever wanted to enter Ihram did so, and whoever did not want to, did not (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I used to twist the garlands for the Hadi of the Messenger of Allah. Then he would not avoid anything that the Muhrim avoids (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aishah said:"I used to twist the garlands for the Hadi of the Messenger of Allah. Then he would not avoid anything." She said "We do not know that the pilgrim may exit Ihram fully except by performing Tawaf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I used to twist the garlands fro the Hadi of the Messenger of Allah and the Hadi would be taken out garlanded, and the Messenger of Allah would stay (with his family) his wives (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"I remember twisting the garlands for the sacrificial sheep of the Messenger of Allah, then he sent them and stayed with us as a non-Muhrim (not in a state of Ihram) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:That the Prophet drove a Hadi during his Hajj (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah saw a man driving a Badanah (Sacrificial camel) and said: "Ride it." He said: "O Messenger of Allah, it is a Badanah." He said: "Ride it, woe to you!" the second or third time (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:the Messenger of Allah saw a man driving a Badanah and said: "Ride it." He said: "It is Badanah." He said: "Ride it." He said: "It is a Badanah." The fourth time he said: Ride it, woe to you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet saw a man driving a Badanah and he was exhausted from walking. He said:"Ride it." He said: "It "It is Badanah." He said: "Ride it even if it is a Badanah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Az-Zuhair said:"I heard Jabir bin Abdullah being asked about riding a Badanah. He said about riding a Badanah. He said: "I heard the Messenger of Allah say: Ride it in a reasonable manner if necessary, until you find another mount (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Surqah bin Malik bin Jushum said :"O Messenger of Allah, do you think that this Umrah of ours is for this year only, or for all time?" The Messenger of Allah said: "It is for all time (from eng-nasai.txt)
Surqah said:'The Messenger of Allah joined Hajj and Umrah and we did so with him. We said: "Is it just for us, or for all time?" He said: "No, it is for all time (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Harith bin Bilal that his father said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, is this annulment of Hajj just for us or is it for all the people?' He said: 'No, it is just for us." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said concerning Tamattu" in Hajj:it was only for us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said concerning Tamattu' in Hajj:it is not for you, and you have nothing to do with it; it was only for us, the Companions of Muhammad (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:Tamattu was just for us (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah enter Ihram for 'Umrah and his companions enter Ihrahm for Hajj. He told those who did not have a Hadi with them to exit Ihram. Among those who did not have a Hadi with them was Tallah bin 'Ubaidullah and another man, so they exited Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that the Prophet said:This is 'Umrah that we have benefited from. Whoever does not have a Hadi with him, let him exit Ihram completely. Now 'Umrah is permissible during the months of Hajj (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from As-Sab bin Jaththamah that:the Prophet came, and when he was in Waddan, he saw an onager, but he gave it back to him and said: "'We are in Ihram, we cannot eat game (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ata' that Ibn 'Abbas said to Zaid bin Arqam:"Do you not know that the Prophet was given a piece of game meant when he was in Ihram and he did not accept it?" He said: "Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"As-Sab bin Jaththamah gave the Messenger of Allah the leg of an onager that was dripping with blood when he was in Ihram, at Qudaid, and he returned it to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That As-Sab bin Jaththamah gave the Prophet some onager (meat) when he was in Ihram and he returned it to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"There are five (animals) for which there is no sin on the Muhrim if he kills them: Crows, kites, scorpions, mice and vicious dogs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that the Prophet said:"There are five which the Muhrim may kill: snakes, mice, kites, speckled crows and vicious dogs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that the Messenger of Allah gave permission fro the Muhrim to kill five kinds of animals:crows, kites, mice and vicious dogs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:the Prophet said "There are five kinds of animals for which there is no sin on the one who kills them when he is in a state of Ihram: Kites, mice, vicious dogs, scorpions and crows." (Sahih) Chpater 87. Killing Kites (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"A man said: "O Messenger of Allah, what animals may we kill when we are in Ihram?' He said: "there are five for which there is no sin in killing them: Kites, crows, mice, scorpions and vicious dogs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:the Prophet was asked what the Muhrim may kill. He said: "He may kill scorpions the evil creature (mice), Kites, crows and vicious dogs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abi ammar said:"I asked Jabir bin Abdulla about hyenas, and he told me to eat them. I said: "Is it not game? He said: 'Yes' I said: 'Did you hear that from the Messenger of Allah?' He said: 'Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Prophet married Maimunah when he was in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That the Messenger of Allah got married when in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That the Messenger of Allah married Maimunah when they were both in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That the Messenger of Allah married Maimunah when he was in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That the Prophet married Maimunah when he was in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uthman bin Affan said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Muhrim should not get married, or propose marriage, or arrange a marriage for some else (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aban bin Uthamn, from his father:That the Prophet forbade the Muhrim to get married, arrange a marriage for anyone else, or propose marriage (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uthaman bin Affan narrated that the Prohet said:"The Muhrim should not get or propose marriage (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That the Messenger of Allah was treated by means of cupping when he was in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:The Prophet was treated by means of cupping when he was Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"Prophet was treated by means of cupping when he was in Ihram." (Diaf) Chpater 93. Cupping To Treat The Muhrim For A Disease he Is Suffering From (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir:That the Prophet was treated by means of cupping when he was in Ihram for a contusion that he had suffered. (Diaf) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas:That the Messenger of Allah was treated by means of cupping when he was in Ihram on the top of the foot for contusion that he had suffered. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Buhayanah narrated:That the Messenger of Allah was treated by means of cupping in the middle of his head, when he was in Ihram, in Lahi Jamal, on the road to Makkah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Muharrish Al-Kabi that:the Prophet set out from Al-Jirranah at night as if he were an ingot of silver (i.e., in whiteness and purity) and perfomed Umrah, then he came back in the mooring as if he had stayed there overnight (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:the Messenger of Allah entered Makkah from the upper valley which is in Al-Batha and he left from the lower valley (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet enter Makkah and his standard was white (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ansas that the Prophet entered Makkah wearing a helmet. It was said that Ibn Katal was haging on to the drapes of the Kabah and he said:"Kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:the Prophet entered Makkah in the year of the Conquest wearing a helmet on his heard (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Abdulla that the Prophet entered on the day of the Conquest of Makkah wearing a back Imamah, without being in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah and his Companions came on the morning of the fourth day (of Dhul-Hijjah), reciting the Talbiyah for Hajj, and the Messenger of commanded them to exit Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah came on the fourth day of Dhul-Hijjah having entered Ihram for Hajj. He prayed Subh in Al-Batha and said: 'Whoever wants to make it Umrah, let him do so (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Prophet came to Makkah on the morning of the fourth of Dhul-Hijjah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: This Hosue will be attacked by an army, and they will be swallowed up by the earth in Al-Baida (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Troops will not cease to attack this House until an army of them are swallowed up by the earth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There are five kinds of vermin which may be killed out and inside the Haram: Crows, kites, vicious dogs, scorpions and mice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There are five kinds of vermin which may be killed out and inside the Haram: Snakes, vicious dogs, speckled Crows, kites, and mice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Saeed bin Al-Musayyab that Umm Sharik said:"The Messenger of Allah told me to kill geckos (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Geckos are vermin (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Prophet said: "There are five animals all of which are vermin, and may killed outside and inside the sanctuary: Vicious dogs, crows, kites, scorpions and mice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Urwah that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "There are five animals all of which are vermin and may be killed inside the sanctuary: Crow, kites, vicious dogs, mice and scorpions (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"Hafsha the wife of the Prophet said: 'The Messenger of Allah said: Thee are five animals for which there is no sin on the one who kill them: Scorpions, crows, kites, mice and vicious dogs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There are five kinds of vermin that may be killed in the Haram: Scorpions, mice, crows, vicious dogs, and kites." (Sahih) Chaper 120. The Prohibition Of Disturbing The Game Of The Haram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:when the Prophet came to Makkah, he was welcomed by the boys of Banu Hashim, and he carried one of them in front of him (on his mount) and one behind him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Muhajir Al-Makki said:"Jabir bin Abdullah was asked whether a man should raise his hands when he sees the House. He said: "I do not think that anyone does that except the Jews. We performed Hajj with the Messenger of Allah and we did not do that." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Tariq bin Alqamah narrated from his mother, that:when the Prophet came to a place in Dar Yala he turned to face the Qiblah and supplicated. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Maimunah, the wife of the Prophet said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'One prayer in this Masjid of mine is better than a thousand prayers in any other Masjid except Al-Masjid Al-Haram (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet said:"One prayer in this Masjid of mine is better than a thousand prayers in any other Masjid except Al-Masjid Al-Kabah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Kabah will be destroyed by Dhul-Suwaiqatan (one with thin legs) from Ethiopia (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Usmah bin Zaid said:"The Messenger of Allah entered the Kabah and recited the Tasbih and the Takbir in its corners, but he did not pray. Then he came out and prayed two Rakahs behind the Maqam, then he said: 'This is Qiblah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aisha said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Can I not enter the House?' He said: 'Enter the Hijr for it is part of the House (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Prophet did not pray inside the Kabah, but he recited the Takbir in its corners." (Sahih) Chatper 131. Dhikr And Supplication Inside The House (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Usmah said:"The Messenger of Allah came out of the House and prayed two Rakahs in front of the Kabah, then he said: 'This is the Qiblah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ata said:"I head Ibn Abbas sya: 'Usmah bin Zaid told me that the Prophet entered the YHouse, and supplicated in all its corner, but he did not pray inside unitl he came out; when he came out he prayed two Rakahs in front of the Kabah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas:That the Prophet passed by while he was circumambulating the Kabah with a man who was leading another with a ring in his nose. The Messenger of Allah stopped him with his hand then told him to lead him by his hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allab passed by a man who was leading another man with something that he had stipulated in a vow. The Prophet took it and broke it, and he said: 'It is a vow.'" (Sahih) Chatper 136. It Is Permissible To Speak During Tawaf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Tawus from a man who met the Prophet, that he said:"Tawaf of the House is a form of Salah, so speak little." (Sahih Mawquf) This is the wording of Yu8saf, which was contradicted by Hanzalah bin Abi sufyan: (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Umar said:"Speak little when you are perfoming Tawaf for you are in a state of Salah". (Sahih Mawquf) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jubair bin Mutim that the Prophet said:"O Banu Abd Manaf, do not prevent anyone from circumambulating this House of praying at any time of the night or day he wishes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah performed Tawaf around the Kabah during the farewell pilgrimeage on a camel, touching the Corner with his crooked-ended stick." (Sahih) Chpater 141. Tawaf For The One Who Is Performing Hajj Al-Ifrad (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar joined Hajj and Umrah (Qiran) and he performd on Tawaf and said:"This is what I saw the Messenger of Allah doing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Abdullah that:the Prophet performed one Tawaf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that the Prophet said:"The Black Stone is from Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Suwaid bin Ghafalah that Umar kissed the Black Stone and touched it, and said:"I saw Abdu Al-Qasim paying attention to you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated Abbas bin Rabiah said:"I saw Umar coming to the Stone and saying: 'I know that you are just a stone; had I not seen the Messenger of Allah kiss you I would not have kissed you.' Then he came close to it and kissed it." (Sahih) Chpater 148. How to Kiss It (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi that:Abdulla bin Umar used to walk rapidly for three (rounds), and walk for four, and he said that the Messenger of Allah used to do that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"When the Messenger of Allah came to Makkah, he touched the Black Stone and at the beginning of his Tawaf, he walked rapidly in (the first) three of the seven rounds (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi' that:Abdullah bin Umar used to walk rapidly in three rounds of his Tawaf when he came for Hajj or Umrah, and walk (at a normal pace) in four. He said: "The Messenger of Allah used to do that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin Abdullah said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah walking rapidly from the Stone to the Stone, until he had finished three circuits (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar that:the Prophet used to touch the Yemeni Corner and the Stone in earch Tawaf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Umar:The Prophet used to touch only the Stone and the Yemeni Corner. (Sahih) Chatper 157. Touching The Two Yemeni Corners (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"I did not see the Messenger of Allah touching any part of the House except the two Yemeni Corners (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ubaid bin Juraij said:"I said to Ibn Umar: 'I see that you only touch these two Yemeni corners.' He said: 'I only saw the Messenger of Allah touch these two corners.'" This is an abridgement of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah did not touch any of the corner of the House except the Black Corner and the one that is next to it, in the direction of the houses of Al-Jumahiyyain (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Nafi said:"Abdullah, may Allah be pleased with him, said: "I have not failed to touch these two corners since I saw the Messenger of Allah touching them, the Yemeni Corner and Black Stone, either when it is difficult or when it is easy (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"Since I saw the Messenger of Allah touch it, I did not fail to touching the Stone whether it was easy or difficult (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah circumambulated (the Kabah) during the Farewell Pilgrimage on a camel, touching the Corner with a crook-ended stick (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah used to circumambulate the House on his mount, and when he reached the Corner be pointed to it." (Sahih) Chpater 161. They Saying Of Allah, The Mighty And Sublimse: "Take Your Adornment To Every Masjid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Muttalib bin Wadaah said:"I saw the Prophet when he had completed his seven (circuits of Tawaf); he came to the edge of the Mataf and prayed two Rakahs, with nothing in between him and people who were circumambulating." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah drank from the water of Zamzam while standing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"I gave the Messenger of Allah some Zamzam to drink and he drank it while standing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"When he went tout the Masjid heading for As-Safa, I heard the Messenger of Allah say: We will start with that with which Allah started (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"Messenger of Allah went out to As-Safa and said.We will start with that with which Allah started. Then he recited: 'Verifly, as-Safa and Al-Marwah (two Mountains in Makkah) are of the symbols of Allah.'" (Sahih) Chpater 169. Where To Stand On As-Safa (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir narrated that:the Messenger of Allah climed up As-Safa until he could see the House, then he said Takbir (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jafar bin Muhammad narrated, that he heard his father narrate, that he heard Jabir, speak of the Pilgrimage of the Prophet:"The Prophet stood atop as-Safa proclaiming the Tahlil of Allah (saying Lal ilaha illallah) and supplicating in between that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Kathir bin Jumhan said:"I saw Ibn Umar walking between As-Safa and Al-Marwah. He said: 'I am walking because I saw the Messenger of Allah Walking, and I hasten because I saw the Messenger of Allah hasten (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Saeed bin Jubair said:"I saw Ibn Umar and he mentioned something similar, except he said: "and I am an old man (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Az-Zubair said:"They asked Ibn Umar: 'Did you see the Messenger of Allah walk rapidly between As-Safa and Al-Marwah?' He said: 'He was among a group of people and they walked rapidly, and I think they went at the same pace as him.'" (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Prophet walked rapidly betwwne As-Safa and Al-Marwah to show the idolaters that he was strong (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Safiyyah bint Shaimah that a woman said:I saw the Messenger of Allah hastening at the bottom of the valley and he said: "The river bed should not be crossed except with vigor." (Sahih) Chpater 178. The Place Where One Should Walk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin Abdullah, may Allah be pleased with him, that:when the Messenger of Allah came down from As-Safa he would walk until he reached the bottom of the valley, then he would hasten until he came out of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"When the Messenger of Allah reached level ground at the bottom of the valley, he would hasten until he came out of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir narrated that:the Messenger of Allah came down from As-Safa until he reached level round in the valley, then he hastened (Ramel) until (the ground) rouse, then he walked (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Prophet and his Companions only performed Sai between As-Safa and Al-Marwah once (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Muawiyah that:he cut the hair of the Prophet with the edge of an arrow during his Umrah at Al-Marwah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muawiyah said:"I cut the hair of the Messenger of Allah at Al-Marwah with the edge of a Bedouin arrow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"We left Mina with the Messenger of Allah for AArafat, and some of us were reciting the Talbiyah and some reciting the Takbir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"We left for Arafat with the Messenger of Allah, and some of us were reciting the Talbiyah and some reciting the Takbir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Uqbah bin Amir that the Messenger of Allah said:"The day of Arafat and the day of sacrifice and the day of At-Tashriq are our Id, the people of Islam, and they are days of eating and drinking (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Nubait, that his father said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah delivering a Khutab atop a red camel in Arafat, before the Salah." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salamah bin Nubait that his father said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah delivering a Khutbah on the day of Arafat atop a red camel." (Hasan) Chpater 200. Delivering A Short Khutbah In 'Arafat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to offer prayers at their proper time except in Jam (Al-Muzdalifah) and Arafat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Usamah bin Zaid said:"I was a companion rider with the Prophet at Arafat. He raised his hands in supplication, so his she-camel began leaning and he dropped her halter, so he took the halter with one of his hands while he was raising the other hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Muhammad bin Jubir bin Mutim that his father:"I lost a camel of mine, so I went to look for it in Arafat on the day of Arafat. I saw the Prophet standing there and said: 'what is he doing here?' He is one of the Hums (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ja`far bin Muhammad said:"My father told me: 'We came to Jabir bin `Abdullah and asked him about the Hajj of the Prophet. He told us that the Prophet said: "All of Arafat is the place of standing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ghaftan bin Tarif that he heard Ibn Abbas say:"When the Messenger of Allah departed he reined in his she-camel until its head touched the middle of his saddle, and he was saying to the people: 'Be tranquil be tranquil,' on the evening of Arafat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah departed (From Arafat) in a tranquil manner, and he enjoined them to be tranquil. He hurried in the valley of Muhassir and told them to stone the Jamrat with (pebbles like date stones or fingertips. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet departed from Arafat and started saying:"Be tranquil, O slaves of Allah!" gesturing with his hand like this - and Ayyub gested with his palm uppermost (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Usmah bin Zaid that he was asked how the Prophet traveled during the Farewell pilgrimage. He said:"He used to ride at a moderately fast pace, and when he came upon some open space he would gallop (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Usmah bin Zaid that when the Prophet departed from Arafat he turned toward the mountain pass. I said to him:"Are you going to pray Magrib?" He said: "The prayer place is still ahead of you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ayyub that:the Messenger of Allah joined Maghrib and Isha in Jam (Al-Muzdalifah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Masud that:the Prophet joined Maghrib and Isha in Jam (Al-Muzdalifah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that:the Messenger of Allah joined Maghrib and Isha; in Jam (Al-Muzdalifah), with one Iqamah, and he did not offer any voluntary prayers in between or after either of them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah prayed Maghrib and Isha in Jam (Al-Muzdalifah) with one Iqamah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ubaidullah bin Abu Yazeed said:I heard Ibn Abbas say: I was one of those whom the Prophet sent ahead amongh the weak ones of his family (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated Abbas said:"I was one those whom the Prophet sent ahead on the night of Al-Muzdalifah among the weak ones of his family (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas, from Al-Fadl, that:the Prophet commanded the weak ones among Banu Hashim to move on from Jam' (Al-Muzadalifah) at night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim bin Shawwal that:Umm Habibah told him that the Prophet told her to leave Jam (Al-Muzdalifah) for Mina at the end of the night (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Habibah said:"We used to leave Jam Al-Muzdalifah for Mina at the end of the night, during the time of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Aishah said:"The Prophet allowed Sawdah to leave Jam (Al-Muzdalifah) before dawn because she was a heavyset woman (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdullah said:"I never saw the Messenger of Allah offer any prayer except at the proper time, apart from Maghrib and Isha in Jam (Al-Muzdalifah) and Fajir on that day, which he offered before the usual time (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Urwah bin Mudarris said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah stading in Al-Muzdalifah and he said: 'Whoever offers this prayer whith us here then stands with us and stood before that in Arafat by nightor by day, his Hajj is complete (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jafar bin Muahammad narrated that his father said:"We came to Jabir bin Abdullah and he told us that the Messenger of Allah said: 'All of Al Muzdalifah is a place for (the pilgrims) to stand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid said:"When we were in Jam (Al-Muzadalifah), Ibn Masud said: 'I heard the one to whoem surat Al-Baqarah was revealed say, in this place: Labbaik Allahumma Labbaik (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ata bin Abi Rabah told them that he heard Ibn Abbas say:"The Messenger of Allah sent me with the weak ones of his family to pray Subh in Mina and stone the Jamrah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ata bin Abi Rabah that a freed slave of Asma bin Abi Bakr told him:"I came with Asma bint Abi Bakr to Mina at the end of the night and I said to her: 'We have come to Mina at the end of the night.' She said: 'We sued to do this one who was better than you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet hurried in the valley of Muhassir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Fadl bin abbas that:he was riding behind the Prophet and he continued to recite the Talbiyah until he stoned the Jamrat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:the Messenger of Allah recited the Talbiyah unitl he stoned the Jamrat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qudamah bin Abdullah said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah stoning JamratualAqabah on the Day of Sacrifice on the reddish-brown camel of his, without beating anyone or driving them off (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Az-Zubair narrated that he heard Jabir bin Abdullah say:"I saw the Messneger of Allah stone the Jamrat while on his camel saying: "O people, learn your rituals (of Hajj) for I do not know whether I will perform Hajj again after this year (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah stoned the Jamrat on the Day of Sacrifice in the forenoon, and after the Day of Sacrifice he stoned (the Jamarat) When the sun had passed its zenith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abbas said:"The Messenger ofAllah sent us young boys of Banu Abdul-Muttalib on donkeys, stalping our things and saying "O my sons, do not stone Jamratulal Aqabah until the sun has risen. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abbas that:the Prophet sent his family ahead, and told them not to stone the Jamrah until the sun had risen. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu al-Baddah bin'Adiyy, from father, that:the Prophet granted the camel herders a concession allowing them to stone the Jamrat on one day an not another (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Yazid said:"I sqa Ibn Masud stone Jamratul 'Aqabah from the bottom of the valley, then he said: ;This - by the One beside Whom there is no other God-is the place where the one to whom Surat Al-Baqarah was revealed stood (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir:That the Messenger of Allah stoned the Jamarat with pebbles like date sones or fingertips (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah stoned the Jamarat with pebbles like date sones or fingertips (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sad said:"We returned during the Hajj with the Prophet and some of us said that they had stoned (the Jamarat) with seven stones, and other said that they had done so with six, and no one denounced anyone else (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated the Qatadah said:"I heard Abu Mijlaz say: 'I asked Ibn 'Abbas something about the Jimar, and he said: I do not know, the Messenger of Allah stoned it with six or seven (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that his brother Al-Fadl bin 'Abbas said:"I was riding behind the Prophet and he continued to recite the Talbiyah until he stoned Jamratul'Aqabah. He stoned it with seven pebbles, saying the Takbir with each throw (from eng-nasai.txt)
Al-Fadl bin 'Abbas said:"I was riding behind the Messenger of Allah and he continued to hear him reciting the Talbiyah until he stoned Jamratul 'Aqabah, then when he soned (the Jamrah) he stopped reciting the Talbiyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:Al-Fadl to him that he roed behind the Messenger of Allah and he continued to recited the Talbiyah until eh stoned the Jamrat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Fadl bin 'Abbas that:he was riding behind the Prophet and he continued recite the Talbiyah until he stoned Jamratul Aqabah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ib 'Abbas said:"When (the pilgrim) has stoned hthe Jamrat, everything becomes permissible for him except (intimacy with) women," It was said: "And perfume?" he said; "I saw the Messenger of Allah smelling strongly of musk - is it not a perfume? (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:: “I heard the Messenger of Allah say” a similar Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Strive against the idolators with your wealth, your hands and your tongues." [1] [1] Its chain has defects while its meaning is supported by other chains (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever dies without having fought or thought of fighting, he dies on one of the branches of hypocrisy (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"A man came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and asked him for permission to go for Jihad. He said: 'Are your parents alive?' He said: 'Yes.' He said: 'Then strive for their sake (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"No man who weeps for fear of Allah will be touched by the Fire until the milk goes back into the udders. And the dust (of Jihad) in the cause of Allah and the smoke of Hell, will never be combined in the nostrils of a Muslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"No man will enter the Fire who weeps for fear of Allah, Most High, until the milk goes back into the udders. And the dust (of Jihad) in the cause of Allah, and the smoke of Hell will never be combined (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The dust in the cause of Allah and the smoke of Hell will never be combined in the lungs of a slave, and the stinginess and faith can never be combined in a slave's heart (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The dust in the cause of Allah and the smoke of Hell will never be combined in a man's face, and stinginess and faith can never be combined in a slave's heart (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The dust in the cause of Allah and the smoke of Hell will never be combined in a slave's lungs, and stinginess and faith can never be combined in a slave's heart (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The dust in the cause of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, and the smoke of Hell will never be combined in the nostrils of a Muslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The dust in the cause of Allah and the smoke of Hell will never be combined in the nostrils of a Muslim, and stinginess and faith will never be combined in a Muslim man's heart (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu 'Ali At-Tujibi (said) that he heard Abu Raihanah say:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'The eye that stays awake in the cause of Allah will be forbidden to the Fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sahl bin Sa'd said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Going out before noon or after noon, in the cause of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, is better than this world and everything in it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu 'Abdur-Rahman Al-Hubuli that he heard Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari say:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Going out before noon and after noon, in the cause of Allah, is better than everything on which the sun rises and sets (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The guests of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, are three: The warrior, the pilgrim performing Hajj, and the pilgrim performing 'Umrah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'The parable of a Mujahid who strives in the cause of Allah - and Allah knows best who in His cause - is that of one who fasts, prays Qiyam, focuses with proper humility, bows and prostrates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that he asked the prophet of Allah (ﷺ) which deed was best. He said:"Belief in Allah and Jihad in the cause of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Yahya bin Al-Walid bin 'Ubadah bin As-Samit that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever fights in the cause of Allah intending only to get an 'Iqal, he will have what he intended (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ubadah bin As-Samit that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever fights seeking only an 'Iqbal, then he will have what he intended (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, will admit three people into Paradise for one arrow: The one who makes it, intending it to be used for a good cause, the one who shoots it, and one who passes it to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"No one is wounded in the cause of Allah - and Allah knows best who is wounded in His cause - but he will come on the Day of Resurrection with his wounds bleeding the color of blood, but with the fragrance of musk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr said:"I heard Jabir say: 'A man said on the day of Uhud: If I am killed in the cause of Allah, where do you think I will be? He said: In Paradise. He threw down some dates that were in his hand and fought until he was killed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The martyr does not feel the pain of being killed, except as any one of you feels a pinch (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sahl bin Abi Umamah bin Sahl bin Hunaif narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever asks Allah, the mighty and Sublime, sincerely for martyrdom, Allah will cause him to reach the status of the martyrs even of he dies in his bed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Salih, the freed slace of 'Uthman, said:"uthman bin 'Affan said: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: A day in the cause of Allah is better than a thousand days doing anything else (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) promised that we would invade India. If I live to see that I will sacrifice myself and my wealth. If I am killed, I will be one of the best of the martyrs, and if I come back, I will be Abu Hurairah Al-Muharrar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The Hour will not begin until the Muslims fight the Turks, a people with faces like hammered shields who wear clothes made of hair and shoes made of hair (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mus'ab bin Sa'd, from his father, that he thought he was better than other Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ). The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Rather, Allah support this Ummah because of their supplication, their Salah, and their sincerity (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jubair bin Nufair Al-Hadrami that he heard Abu Ad-Darda' say:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Bring me the weak, for you only receive provision and Divine support by virtue of your weak ones (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Khalid that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever equips a warrior in the cause of Allah has fought, and whoever looks after his family in his absence has fought (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever equips a warrior has fought, and whoever looks after his family in his absence has fought (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Khuraim bin Fatik said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever spends in the cause of Allah, it will be recorded for him seven hundred fold (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Mas'ud that a man gave a bridled camel in charity in the cause of Allah. The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"On the Day of Resurrection seven hundred bridled camels will come to you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Strive in Jihad with your hands, your tongues and your wealth.'" [1] [1] See (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah (may Allah be pleased with him) that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) commanded that snakes be killed and he said:"Whoever fears their vengeance is not one of us (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said: "When the Messenger of Allah died he had nine wives; he used to be intimate with all of them except one, who had given her day and night to 'Aishah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Anas:Anas narrated that the Prophet used to go around to his wives in a single night, and at that time he had nine wives (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:It was narrated that 'Aishah, may Allah be pleased with her, said: "The Messenger of Allah gave his wives the choice (of staying with him) was it divorce? (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:It was narrated that 'Aishah said: "The Messenger of Allah gave us the choice, and we chose him, so there was no divorce (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Ata':It was narrated that 'Ata' said: "Aishah said: 'The Messenger of Allah did not die until women had been made lawful to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:It was narrated that 'Aishah said: "The Messenger of Allah did not die until Allah permitted him to marry whatever women he wanted (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:It was narrated that 'Abdullah said: "The Messenger of Allah said to us: 'O young men, whoever among you can afford it, let him get married,'" and he quoted the same hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas:It was narrated that Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas said: "The Messenger of Allah forbade 'Uthman to be celibate. If he had given him permission we would have castrated ourselves (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah forbade celibacy (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Ibn Buraidah:It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah that his father said: "The Messenger of Allah said: 'The nobility of the people of this world, that which they (always) go to, is wealth (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said: "Women are married for four things: their wealth, their nobility, their beauty and their religious commitment. Choose the one who is religiously committed, may your hands be rubbed with dust (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr bin Al-'As:It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr bin Al-'As that the Messenger of Allah said: "This world is all temporary conveniences, and the best temporary convenience of this world is a righteous woman (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Anas:It was narrated from Anas that they said: "O Messenger of Allah, why don't you marry a woman from the Ansar?" He said: "They are very jealous (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said: "A man proposed to a woman from among the Ansar and the Messenger of Allah said to him: 'Have you seen her?' He said: 'No.' So he told him to look at her (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet said: "None of you should propose marriage to a woman when someone else has already proposed to her (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said: "None of you should propose marriage to a woman when someone else has already proposed to her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"None of you should propose marriage to a woman when someone else has already proposed to her, unless he marries (and he gives up the idea), or gives him permission (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"None of you should propose marriage to a woman when someone else has already proposed to her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"A man of the Ansar came to the Messenger of Allah and said: 'I have married a woman.' He said: 'Did you look at her? For there is something in the eyes of the Ansar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that a man wanted to marry a woman and the Prophet said:"Look at her, for there is something in the eyes of the Ansar (from eng-nasai.txt)
Thabit Al-Bunani said:"I was with Anas bin Malik and a daughter of his was with him. He said: 'A woman came to the Messenger of Allah and offered herself in marriage to him. She said: O Messenger of Allah, do you want to marry me? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that a woman offered herself in marriage to the Prophet. The daughter of Anas laughed and said:"How little was her modesty." Anas said: "She was better than you; she offered herself in marriage to the Prophet (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:Zainab bint Jahsh used to boast to the other wives of the Prophet and say: "Allah married me to him from above the Heavens." And the Verse of Hijab was revealed concerning her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah married her when she was six years old, and consummated the marriage with her when she was nine (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah married me when I was seven years old, and he consummated the marriage with me when I was nine (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu 'Ubaidah said:"Aishah said: 'The Messenger of Allah married me when I was nine and I lived with him for nine years (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah married her when she was nine and he died when she was eighteen years old (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah said:"A previously married woman has more right to decide about herself (with regard to marriage) than her guardian, and a virgin should be asked for permission with regard to marriage, and her permission is her silence (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"A previously married woman has more right to decide about herself (with regard to marriage) than her guardian, and an orphan girl should be consulted, and her permission is her silence (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah said:"A previously married woman has more right (to decide) about herself (with regard to marriage) than her guardian, and an orphan girl should be consulted with regard to marriage, and her permission is her silence (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"The guardian has no right (to force) the previously married woman (into a marriage). And an orphan girl should be consulted, and her silence is her approval (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"A previously married woman has more right (to decide) about herself (with regard to marriage), and a virgin should be consulted by her father, and her permission is her silence (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"Seek the permission of women with regard to marriage." It was said: "What if a virgin is too shy and remains silent?" He said: "That is her permission (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Khansa' bint Khidham that her father married her off when she had been previously married, and she was unwilling. She went to the Messenger of Allah and he annulled the marriage (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'An orphan girl should be consulted with regard to marriage, and if she remains silent, that is her permission. If she refuses then she is not to be forced (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah married Maimunah bint Al-Harith when he was a Muhrim." According to the Hadith of Ya'la (one of the narrators): "In Sarif (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ash-Sha'tha' that Ibn 'Abbas told him:"The Prophet married Maimunah when he was a Muhrim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet married Maimunah when he was a Muhrim, and she appointed Al-'Abbas in charge of her marriage, and he married her to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah married Maimunah when he was a Muhrim (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uthman bin 'Affan, may Allah be pleased with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Muhrim should not get married, or arrange a marriage for someone else, or propose marriage (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uthman bin 'Affan, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated that the Prophet said:"The Muhrim should not get married, arrange a marriage for someone else, nor propose marriage (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Adiyy bin Hatim said:"Two men recited a Tashahhud before the Prophet and one of them said: 'Whoever obeys Allah and His Messenger has been guided aright and whoever disobeys them has gone astray.' The Messenger of Allah said: 'What a bad speaker you are (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Utbah bin 'Amir that the Messenger of Allah said:"The conditions that are most deserving of fulfillment, are those by means of which the private parts become allowed to you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Utbah bin 'Amir that the Messenger of Allah said:"The conditions that are most deserving of fulfillment are those by means of which the private parts become permitted to you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: '(A man should not be married to) a woman and her paternal aunt nor to a woman and her maternal aunt at the same time (from eng-nasai.txt)
Qabisah bin Dhu'aib said that he heard Abu Hurairah say:"The Messenger of Allah forbade (being married to) a woman and her paternal aunt or to a woman and her maternal aunt at the same time (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah forbade being married to a woman and her paternal aunt or maternal aunt at the same time (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah forbade being married to four kinds of women at the same time:a woman and her paternal aunt or a woman and her maternal aunt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"A woman should not be taken as a co-wife to her paternal aunt or her maternal aunt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade taking a woman as a co-wife to her paternal aunt or her maternal aunt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"A woman should not be taken as a co-wife to her paternal aunt or her maternal aunt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"A woman should not be taken as a co-wife to her paternal aunt or her maternal aunt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade taking a woman as a co-wife to her paternal aunt or her maternal aunt (from eng-nasai.txt)
Asim said:"I read a book to Ash-Sha'bi in which it was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet said: 'A woman should not be taken as a co-wife to her paternal aunt or her maternal aunt.' He said: 'I heard that from Jabir (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade taking a woman as a co-wife to her paternal aunt or maternal aunt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade taking a woman as a co-wife to her paternal aunt or maternal aunt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"What becomes unlawful (for marriage) through birth becomes unlawful through breast-feeding (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"What becomes unlawful (for marriage) through breast-feeding is that which becomes unlawful through lineage (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amrah said:"I heard 'Aishah say: The Messenger of Allah said: 'What becomes unlawful (for marriage) through breast-feeding is that which becomes unlawful through birth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Mention was made to the Messenger of Allah of the daughter of Hamzah (as a potential wife). He said: 'She is the daughter of my brother through breast-feeding.'" (One of the narrators) Shu'bah said: "Qatadah heard this from Jabir bin Zaid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair that the Prophet said:"Suckling once or twice does not make (marriage) prohibited (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Suckling once or twice does not make (marriage) prohibited (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Az-Zuraqi that a man asked the Messenger of Allah about coitus interruptus and said:"My wife is breast-feeding and I do not want her to get pregnant." The Prophet said: "What has been decreed in the womb will come to be (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hajjaj bin Hajjaj that his father said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, how can I pay back the dues of the one who breast-fed me?' He said: 'By giving a male or female slave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' said:"I met my maternal uncle who was carrying a flag (for an expedition) and I said: 'Where are you going?' He said: 'The Messenger of Allah is sending me to a man who has married his father's wife after he died, to strike his neck or kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah forbade Ash-Shighar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no 'bringing', no 'avoidance' and no Shighar in Islam, and whoever robs, he is not one of us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no 'bringing', no 'avoidance' and no Shighar in Islam, and whoever robs, he is not one of us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah forbade Ash-Shighar. Ash-Shighar means when a man marries his daughter to another man, on the condition that that man marries his daughter to him, and no dowry is exchanged between them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade Ash-Shighar." (One of the narrators) 'Ubaidullah said: "Ash-Shighar means when a man gives his daughter in marriage on condition that (the other man) gives him his sister in marriage (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah manumitted Safiyyah and made that her dowry (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that the Messenger of Allah manumitted Safiyyah and made her freedom her dowry (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever manumits his female slave, then marries her, he will have two rewards (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Salamah said:"I asked 'Aishah about that and she said: 'The Messenger of Allah got married (and married his daughters) for twelve Uqiyah and a Nashsh'" which is five hundred Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The dowry, when the Messenger of Allah was among us, was ten Awaq (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf said:"The Messenger of Allah saw me looking cheerful as I had just got married." I said: "I have gotten married to a woman of the Ansar." He said: "How much did you give her as a dowry?" He said: "A Nawah (five Dirhams) of gold (from eng-nasai.txt)
(Another chain) with a similar narration (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from An-Nu'man bin Bashir that the Prophet said, concerning a man who had intercourse with his wife's slave woman:"If she let him do that, I will flog him with one hundred stripes , and if she did not let him, I will stone him (to death) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from An-Nu'man bin Bashir that the Messenger of Allah said, concerning a man who had intercourse with his wife's slave woman:"If she let him do that, I will flog him with one hundred stripes, and if she did not let him do that, I will stone him (to death) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah and Al-Hasan, the sons of Muhammad bin 'Ali, from their father, from 'Ali bin Abi Talib, that the Messenger of Allah on the Day of Khaibar forbade temporary marriage to women, and (he also forbade) the meat of tame donkeys (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muhammad bin Hatib said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'What differentiates between the lawful and the unlawful is the Duff, and the voice (singing) for the wedding (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Balj said:"I heard Muhammad bin Hatib say: 'What differentiates between the lawful and the unlawful is the voice (singing) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"When Ali, may Allah be pleased with him, married Fatimah, may Allah be pleased with her, the Messenger of Allah said to him: 'Give her something.' He said: 'I do not have anything.' He said: 'Where is your Hutami armor? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet married me in Shawwal, and he consummated the marriage with me in Shawwal, and which of his wives find more favor with him than me? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah married me when I was six, and consummated the marriage with me when I was nine, and I used to play with dolls (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah married me when I was six, and consummated the marriage with me when I was nine (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Humaid that he heard Anas say:"The Messenger of Allah stayed with Safiyyah bint Huyayy bin Akhtab on the way (back from) Khaibar for three days when he married her, then she was among those who were commanded to observe Hijab (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali, may Allah be pleased with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah fitted out Fatimah with a velvet dress, a water-skin and a pillow stuffed with Idhkhar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah said:"A bed for a man, a bed for his wife, a third for his guest and the fourth is for the Shaitan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah said to me: 'Have you got married?' I said: 'Yes.' He said: 'Have you got any Anmat?' I said: 'How can we afford Anmat?' He said: 'You will be able to (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas, concerning the saying of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime:"O Prophet! When you divorce women, divorce them at their 'Iddah (prescribed periods)." Ibn 'Abbas, may Allah be pleased with him, said: "Before their 'Iddah elapses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Sunnah divorce is to divorce her when she is pure (not menstruating) without having had intercourse with her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that he divorced his wife while she was menstruating. He mentioned that to the Prophet and he said:"Tell him to take her back, then divorce her while she is pure (not menstruating) or pregnant (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that he divorced his wife when she was menstruating, but the Messenger of Allah told him to take her back, and divorce her when she was pure (not menstruating) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Fatimah bint Qais that the Prophet said:"The thrice-divorced woman is not entitled to provision and shelter (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah cursed the woman who tattoos and the one tattooed, the woman who fixed hair extensions and the one who had her hair get extended, the consumer of Riba and the one who pays it, and Al-Muhallil and Al-Muhallal Lahu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that when the Kilabi woman entered upon the Prophet she said:"I seek refuge with Allah from you." The Messenger of Allah said: "You have sought refuge with One Who is Great. Go back to your family (from eng-nasai.txt)
A similar report was narrated from Tamim, the freed slave of Fatimah, from Fatimah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Atiyyah Al-Qurazi said:"On the day that Sa'd passed judgment on Banu Quraizah I was a young boy and they were not sure about me, but they did not find any pubic hair, so they let me live, and here I am among you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"The pen has been lifted from three: From the sleeper until he wakes up, from the minor until he grows up, and from the insane until he comes back to his senses or recovers (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that -(one of the narrators) 'Abdur-Rahman said:"The Messenger of Allah -said: 'Allah, the Most High, has forgiven my Ummah for everything that enters the mind, so long as it is not spoken of or put into action (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, has forgiven my Ummah for what is whispered to them or what enters their minds, so long as they do not act upon it or speak of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Allah, the Most High, has forgiven my Ummah for whatever enters the mind, so long as it is not spoken of or put into action (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Look at how Allah diverts the insults and curses of Quraish from me. They insult 'Mudhammam' and curse 'Mudhammam' -but I am Muhammad (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah gave us the choice and we chose him; was that a divorce? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah gave his wives the choice but that was not a divorce (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Masruq that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet gave his wives the choice and that was not a divorce (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah gave his wives the choice; was that a divorce? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah gave us the choice and we chose him, and that was not counted as anything (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Qasim bin Muhammad said:"Aishah had a male slave and a female slave. She said: 'I wanted to set them free, and I mentioned that to the Messenger of Allah. He said: Start with the male slave before the female slave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah, may Allah be pleased with her, said:"The husband of Barirah was a slave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Prophet swore an oath of abstention from his wives for a month and stayed in his room for twenty-nine days. It was said: 'O Messenger of Allah, did you not swear an oath of abstention for a month?' He said: 'This month is twenty-nine days (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ayyub, from Al-Hasan, from Abu Hurairah, that the Prophet said:"Women who seek divorce and Khul' are like the female hypocrites." Al-Hasan said: "I did not hear it from anyone other than Abu Hurairah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"A man came to the Messenger of Allah and said: 'My wife does not object if anyone touches her.' He said: 'Divorce her if you wish.' He said: 'I am afraid that I will miss her.' He said: 'Then stay with her as much as you need to (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that a man said:"O Messenger of Allah, I have a wife who does not object if anyone touches her." He said: "Divorce her." He said: "I cannot live without her." He said: "Then keep her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah conducted the procedure of Li'an between the 'Ajlani and his wife, who was pregnant (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas:"When the Prophet commanded the two who were engaging in Li'an to utter the fifth oath, he commanded a man to place his hand over his mouth, and he said: "It will inevitably bring the punishment upon the liar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Jubair said:"Al-Mus'ab did not separate the two who engaged in Li'an." Sa'eed said: "I mentioned that to Ibn 'Umar and he said: 'The Messenger of Allah separated the couple from Banu 'Ajlan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah conducted the procedure of Li'an between a man and his wife, and he separated them and attributed the child to his mother (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"The child is the bed's and for the fornicator is the stone (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The child is the bed's and for the fornicator is the stone (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The child is the bed's, and for the fornicator is the stone (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from a man from Hadramawt, that Zaid bin Arqam said:"The Messenger of Allah sent 'Ali to (be the governor of) Yemen, and a child was brought to him concerning whom three men were disputing." Then he quoted the same Hadith. Salamah bin Kuhail contradicted them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah came to me looking happy and cheerful, and he said: 'Did you not see that Mujazziz looked at Zaid bin Harithah and Usamah and said: These feet belong to one another (from eng-nasai.txt)
A similar report was narrated from Safiyyah bint Abi 'Ubaid from one of the wives of the Prophet -and she is Umm Salamah- from the Prophet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Miswar bin Makhramah that Subai'ah Al-Aslamiyyah gave birth one day after her husband died. She came to the Messenger of Allah and asked his permission to marry, and he gave her permission to marry and she married (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Miswar bin Makhramah that the Prophet commanded Sabai'ah to get married when her Nifas ended (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"Subai'ah gave birth a few days after her husband died, and the Messenger of Allah told her to get married (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that the shorter Surah, that speaks of women (At-Talaq), was revealed after Al-Baqarah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"It is not permissible for a woman to mourn for anyone who dies for more than three days, except for her husband (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day to mourn for more than three days, except for her husband (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that this Verse abrogated the woman's 'Iddah among her family, and she may observe her 'Iddah wherever she wants. That is the saying of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime:without turning them out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Safiyyah bint Shaibah, from Umm Salamah, the wife of the Prophet, that the Prophet said:"The woman whose husband has died should not wear clothes that are dyed with safflower or red clay, and she should not use dye nor kohl (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm 'Atiyyah that the Prophet said:"It is not permissible for a woman who believes in Allah and the Last Day, to mourn for anyone who dies for more than three days, except for a husband; she should not use kohl, dye nor wear dyed clothes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hafsah, from Umm 'Atiyyah, from the Prophet, that he granted a concession to the woman whose husband has died, allowing her to use Qust and Azfar when purifying herself following her menses (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hisham narrated from his father that Fatimah said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! My husband has divorced me three times and I am afraid that my house be broken into.' So he told her to move (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that he divorced his wife when she was menstruating, and the Messenger of Allah told him to take her back (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar that the Prophet -'Amr (one of the narrators) said:"The Messenger of Allah- had divorced Hafsah, then he took her back." And Allah knows best (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"There was nothing dearer to the Messenger of Allah after women than horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:The Prophet used to dislike the Shikal among horses. And the wording is that of Isma'il (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet used to dislike the Shikal among horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Prophet said:"Omens are only in three things: a woman, a horse or a house (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"Omens are in houses, women and horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah said:"If there are (omens) in anything, they are in houses, women and horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Blessing is in the forelocks of horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah twisting the forelock of a horse with his two fingers, and saying: 'Goodness is tied to the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection: Reward and spoils of war (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet said:"There is goodness in the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Urwah Al-Bariqi said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Goodness is tied to the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Urwah bin Abi Al-Ja'd that he heard the Prophet say:"Goodness is tied to the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection: Reward and spoils of war (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Urwah said that he heard the Messenger of Allah say:"Goodness is tied to the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection: Reward and spoils of war (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Urwah bin Abi Al-Ja'd that the Prophet said:"Goodness is tied to the forelocks of horses until the Day of Resurrection: Reward and spoils of war (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever keeps a horse for the cause of Allah out of faith in Allah and believing the promise of Allah, its feed, water, urine and dung will all count as Hasanat in the balance of his deeds (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There should be no awards (for victory in a competition) except for arrows, camels or horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There should be no awards (for victory in a competition) except on arrows, camels or horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"No award (for victory in a competition) is permissible except over camels or horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There should be no awards (for victory in a competition) except over camels or horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no 'bringing', no 'avoidance' and no Shighar in Islam, and whoever robs is not one of us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no 'bringing', no 'avoidance' and no Shighar in Islam (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Ishaq narrated:"I heard 'Amr bin Al-Harith say: 'The Messenger of Allah did not leave behind anything except his white mule, his weapon and some land which he left as a charity (from eng-nasai.txt)
Yunus bin Abi Ishaq narrated that his father said:"I heard 'Amr bin Al-Harith say: 'I saw the Messenger of Allah and he left nothing behind except his white mule, his weapon and some land which he left as a charity (from eng-nasai.txt)
A similar report was narrated from Abu Ishaq Al-Fazari, from (Ayyub) bin 'Awn, from Nafi', from Ibn 'Umar, from 'Umar, may Allah be pleased with him, from the Prophet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Umar said to the Prophet: 'The one hundred shares that I acquired in Khaibar -I have never acquired any wealth that I like more than that, and I want to give it in charity.' The Prophet said: Freeze it and donate its fruits (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Umar said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about some land of mine in Thamgh. He said: 'Freeze it and donate its fruits (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman Al-Sulami said:"When 'Uthman was besieged in his house, the people gathered around his house and he looked out over them" and he quoted the same Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'It is not befitting for a Muslim who has anything concerning which a will should be made, to abide for two nights without having a written will with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"It is not befitting for a Muslim who has anything concerning which a will should be made, to abide for two nights without having a written will with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
(The same) was narrated from Ibn 'Awn, from Nafi', from Ibn 'Umar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that the Prophet said:"It is not befitting for a Muslim to abide for three nights without having his will with him." 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said: "Since I heard this from the Messenger of Allah, I have always had my will with me (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim bin 'Abdullah, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah said:"It is not right for a Muslim who has anything concerning which a will should be made, to abide for more than three nights without having a written will with him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Talha said:"I asked Ibn Abi Awfa: 'Did the Messenger of Allah leave a will?' He said: 'No.' I said: 'How come it is prescribed for the Muslims to make wills?' He said: 'He left instructions urging the Muslims to adhere to the Book of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah did not leave behind a Dinar or a Dirham, or a sheep or a camel, and he did not leave any will (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah did not leave behind a Dirham or a Dinar, or a sheep or a camel, and he did not leave any will (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah did not leave behind a Dirham or a Dinar, or a sheep or a camel, and he did not leave any will." Ja'far did not mention "Dinar or Dirham (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"They say that the Messenger of Allah made a will concerning 'Ali, may Allah be pleased with him. But he called for a vessel in which to urinate, then he went limp without me realizing it. So to whom did he leave a will? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah died when no one was with him except me." She said: "And he called for a vessel (from eng-nasai.txt)
One from the family of Sa'd narrated:"Sa'd fell sick and the Messenger of Allah entered upon him and he said: 'O Messenger of Allah, shall I bequeath all my money?' He said: 'No.'" And he quoted the same Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'd that the Prophet visited him when he was sick, and he said:"O Messenger of Allah, shall I bequeath all of my wealth?" He said: "No." He said: "Half?" He said: "No." He said: "One-third?" He said: "One-third, and one-third is much or large (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"If the people were to reduce (their bequests) to one-quarter (of their wealth, that would be better), because the Messenger of Allah said: 'One-third, and one-third is much or large (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Kharijah said:"The Messenger of Allah delivered a Khutbah and said: 'Allah has given every person who has rights his due, and there is no bequest to an heir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Kharijah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah, Mighty is His Name, has given every person who has rights his due, and there is no bequest to an heir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that a man said to the Messenger of Allah:"My mother died unexpectedly; if she had been able to speak she would have given charity. Should I give charity on her behalf?" The Messenger of Allah said: "Yes." So he gave charity on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"When a man dies all his good deeds come to an end except three: Ongoing charity (Sadaqah Jariyah), beneficial knowledge and a righteous son who prays for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that a man said to the Prophet:"My father died and left behind wealth, but he did not leave a will. Will it expiate for him if I give charity on his behalf? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that Sa'd asked the Prophet:"My mother died and did not leave a will; shall I give charity on her behalf?" He said: "Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that a man said:"O Messenger of Allah, my mother died; will it benefit her if I give in charity on her behalf?" He said: "Yes." He said: "I have a garden and I ask you to bear witness that I am giving it in charity on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'd bin 'Ubadah that he came to the Prophet and said:"My mother has died and she had a vow to fulfill. Will it suffice if I free a slave on her behalf?" He said: "Free a slave on behalf of your mother (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'd bin 'Ubadah that he consulted the Prophet about a vow which his mother had to fulfill, but she died before doing so. The Messenger of Allah said:"Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'd bin 'Ubadah that he consulted the Prophet about a vow which his mother had to fulfill, but she died before doing so. The Messenger of Allah said:"Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Sa'd consulted the Messenger of Allah about a vow which his mother had to fulfill, but she died before doing so. The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
Muhammad bin 'Abdullah bin Yazid said:"Sufyan narrated to us from Az-Zuhri, from 'Ubaidullah bin 'Abdullah, from Ibn 'Abbas, that Sa'd said: 'My mother died and there was an (outstanding) vow that she had to fulfill. I asked the Prophet and he told me to fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Sa'd bin 'Ubadah Al-Ansari consulted the Messenger of Allah about an (outstanding) vow that his mother had to fulfill, but she died before doing so. The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:Sa'd bin 'Ubadah came to the Prophet and said: "My mother has died and she had a vow to fulfill but she did not do so." He said: "Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'd bin 'Ubadah said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, my mother has died; shall I give in charity on her behalf?' He said: 'Yes.' I said: 'What kind of charity is best?' He said: 'Providing drinking water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'd bin 'Ubadah said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, what kind of charity is best?' He said: 'Providing drinking water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah said to me: 'O Abu Dharr, I think that you are weak, and I like for you what I like for myself. Do not accept a position of Amir over two people, and do not agree to be the guardian of an orphan's property (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from An-Nu'man bin Bashir that his father gave him a present, and his mother said:"Ask the Prophet to bear witness to what you have given to my son." So he came to the Prophet and told him about that, and the Prophet did not want to bear witness to it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Bashir that he gave his son a slave as a present, then he came to the Prophet and he wanted the Prophet to bear witness to that. He said:"Have you given a similar present to all of your children?" He said: "No." He said: "Then take (your present) back (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham bin 'Urwah, from his father, that Bashir came to the Prophet and said:"O Prophet of Allah, I have given An-Nu'man a present." He said: "Have you given something to his brothers?" He said: "No." He said: "Then take it back (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that An-Nu'man said that his father took him to the Prophet and said:"Bear witness that I have given An-Nu'man such and such of my wealth as a gift." He said: "Have you given all your children a present like that which you have given to An-Nu'man? (from eng-nasai.txt)
An-Nu'man said, when he was delivering a Khutbah:"My father took me to the Messenger of Allah to ask him to bear witness to a gift that he had given me. He said: 'Do you have any other children besides him?' He said: 'Yes.' He said: 'Treat them equally (from eng-nasai.txt)
An-Nu'man bin Bashir delivered a Khutbah and said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Treat your children fairly, treat your children fairly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'No one should take back his gift except a father (taking back a gift) from his son. The one who takes back his gift is like one who goes back to his vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The one who takes back his gift is like the dog which vomits then goes back to its vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The likeness of the one who takes back his gift, is that of a dog which goes back to its vomit and eats it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"The likeness of the one who gives a gift then takes it back, is that of a dog which vomits, then goes back to its vomit and eats it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah said:"The likeness of the one who takes back his gift is that of a dog which vomits, then goes back to its vomit." (One of the narrators) Al-Awza'i said: "I heard him narrating this Hadith to 'Ata bin Abi Rabah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"The one who takes back his gift is like the one who goes back to his vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The one who takes back his gift is like the one who goes back to his vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'It does not befit us to leave bad examples. The one who takes back his gift is like the one who goes back to his vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'It does not befit us to leave bad examples. The one who takes back his gift is like the dog which goes back to its vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'It does not befit us to leave bad examples. The one who takes back his gift is like a dog with its vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Tawus, from his father, from Ibn 'Abbas, that the Messenger of Allah said:"The one who takes back his gift, is like the dog which vomits then goes back to its vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Az-Zubair, from Tawus, that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The one who takes back his gift, is like the one who goes back to his vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hanzalah that he heard Tawus say:"Some of those who met the Prophet told us that he said: 'The likeness of the one who gives (something), then takes back his gift, is that of a dog which eats, then vomits, then eats its vomit (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hilal bin Al-'Ala' informed us:"My father narrated to us: Ubaidullah -he is, Ibn 'Amr- narrated to us, from Sufyan, from Ibn Abi Najih, from Tawus, from Zaid bin Thabit, that the Prophet said: 'Ar-Ruqba is permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
Muhammad bin 'Ali bin Maimun informed us, he said:"Muhammad -he is, Ibn Yusuf- narrated to us, he said: 'Sufyan narrated to us from Ibn Abi Najih, from Tawus, from a man, from Zaid bin Thabit that the Prophet ruled that the Ruqba belongs to the one to whom it is given (from eng-nasai.txt)
Zaid narrated from Abu Az-Zubair, from Tawus, from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not give away your property on the basis of Ruqba, for whoever gives a gift on that basis, it belongs to the one to whom he gave it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sufyan narrated from Abu Az-Zubair, from Tawus, from Ibn 'Abbas, who said:"'Umra and Ruqba are the same (from eng-nasai.txt)
(A different chain) from Sufyan, from Abu Az-Zubair, from Tawus, from Ibn 'Abbas, who said:"Ruqba and 'Umra are not permissible; whoever is given something on the basis of 'Umra, it is his, and whoever is given something on the basis of Ruqba, it is his (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hanzalah narrated that he heard Tawus say:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Ruqba is not permissible. Whoever is given something on the basis of Ruqba, it is part of his estate (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sufyan narrated from Ibn Abi Najih, from Tawus, from Zaid bin Thabit, who said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Umra (a gift given for life) is part of the estate (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sufyan narrated from Ibn Tawus, from his father, from Hujr Al-Madari, from Zaid, who said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Umra (a gift given for life) is for the heir (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ma'mar narrated from Ibn Tawus, from his father, from Hujr Al-Madari, from Zaid bin Thabit, from Prophet, who said:"'Umra (a gift given for life) is permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ma'mar narrated from 'Amr bin Dinar, from Tawus, from Zaid bin Thabit, that the Prophet said:"'Umra (a gift given for life) belongs to the heir (from eng-nasai.txt)
(A different chain) from Ma'mar who said:"I heard 'Amr bin Dinar, narrating from Tawus, from Hujr Al-Madari, from Zaid bin Thabit, that the Messenger of Allah said: "'Umra (a gift given for life) belongs to the heir." And Allah knows best (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that the Prophet said:"'Umra (a gift given for life) belongs to the heir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that the Messenger of Allah said:"'Umra (a gift given for life) belongs to the heir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that the Prophet ruled that 'Umra (a gift given for life) belongs to the heir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"'Umra is permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet said:"Indeed 'Umra is permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Tawus that the Messenger of Allah made 'Umra and Ruqba binding (from eng-nasai.txt)
Malik bin Dinar narrated from 'Ata', from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah addressed them one day and said:"'Umra is permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdul-Karim narrated from 'Ata', who said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade 'Umra and Ruqba." I said: "What is Ruqba?" He said: "When one man says to another: 'This belongs to you for the rest of your life.' But if you do that, it is permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
Shu'bah said:"I heard Qatadah narrating from 'Ata', from Jabir that the Prophet said: 'Umra is permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdul-Malik bin Abi Sulaiman narrated from 'Ata' who said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever is given something for the rest of his life, it belongs to him for as long as he lives and after he dies (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sufyan narrated from Ibn Juraij, from 'Ata', from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not give things on the basis of Ruqba or 'Umra. Whoever is given something on the basis of Ruqba or 'Umra, it belongs to his heirs (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Juraij narrated from 'Ata':"Habib bin Abi Thabit informed us from Ibn 'Umar, that the Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no 'Umra and no Ruqba. Whoever is given something on the basis of 'Umra or Ruqba, it belongs to him for the rest of his life and after he dies (from eng-nasai.txt)
Yazid bin Ziyad bin Abi Al-Ja'd narrated from Habib bin Abi Thabit, who said:"I heard Ibn 'Umar say: 'The Messenger of Allah forbade Ruqba and said: "Whoever is given something on the basis of Ruqba, it belongs to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Juraij said:"Abu Az-Zubair informed me that he heard Jabir saying: 'The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever is given something on the basis of 'Umra it belongs to him for the rest of his life and after he dies (from eng-nasai.txt)
Khalid narrated from Dawud bin Abi Hind, from Abu Az-Zubair, from Jabir, who said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Ruqba belongs to the one to whom it is given (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hushaim narrated from Dawud, from Abu Az-Zubair, from Jabir, who said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Umra is permissible for the one to whom it is given, and Ruqba is permissible for the one to whom it is given (from eng-nasai.txt)
Al-Awza'i narrated from Az-Zuhri, from 'Urwah, from Jabir, who said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever is given something on the basis of 'Umra, it belongs to him and to his descendants, and is inherited by those who inherit from him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham bin 'Urwah, from his father, from 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair, that the Messenger of Allah said:"Any man who gives a lifelong gift to another man, it belongs to him (the recipient) and to his descendants, and to those who inherit from him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hisham said:"Yahya bin Abi Kathir narrated to us, he said: 'Abu Salamah bin 'Abdur-Rahman narrated to me, he said: "I heard Jabir say: 'The Messenger of Allah said: "A lifelong gift belongs to the one to whom it was given (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Isma'il said:"Yahya narrated to us that Abu Salamah narrated to him, from Jabir bin 'Abdullah, from the Prophet of Allah who said: 'A lifelong gift belongs to the one to whom it was given (from eng-nasai.txt)
Isma'il narrated from Muhammad, from Abu Salamah, from Abu Hurairah, that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no lifelong gift. Whoever is given something as a lifelong gift, it belongs to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Muhammad bin 'Amr said:"Abu Salamah narrated to us, from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever is given something as a lifelong gift, it belongs to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Bashir bin Nahik narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"A lifelong gift ('Umra) is permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"When the Messenger of Allah conquered Makkah, he stood up to address (the people) and said in his Khutbah: 'It is not permissible for a woman to give (a gift) except with her husband's permission (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"I was thinking of not accepting gifts except from a Quraishi, an Ansari, a Thaqafi or a Dawsi (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that some meat was brought to the Messenger of Allah and he said:"What is this?" It was said: "It was given in charity to Barirah." He said: "It is charity for her and a gift for us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The oath by which the Messenger of Allah used to swear was: 'No, by the Controller of the hearts (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"The oath by which the Messenger of Allah used to swear was: 'No, by the Controller of the hearts (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever swears, let him not swear by anything other than Allah.'" The Quraish used to swear by their forefathers, and so he said: "Do not swear by your forefathers (from eng-nasai.txt)
Yahya bin Abi Ishaq said:"A man from Banu Ghifar told me, in the gathering of Salim bin 'Abdullah, Salim bin 'Abdullah said: 'I heard 'Abdullah -that is, Ibn 'Umar- say: "The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah forbids you to swear by your forefathers (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar that the Prophet said:"Allah forbids you to swear by your forefathers." 'Umar said: "By Allah, I never swore by them again, whether saying it for myself or reporting of others (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that he told him from 'Umar:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah forbids you to swear by your forefathers.'" 'Umar said: "By Allah, I never swore by them again, whether saying it for myself or reporting it of others (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Do not swear by your fathers, nor by your mothers nor by the idols. Swear only by Allah, and do not swear unless you are sincere (from eng-nasai.txt)
Thabit bin Ad-Dahhak narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam, telling a lie, will be as he said, and whoever kills himself with something will be punished with it in the Hereafter (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buraidah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever says: I have nothing to do with Islam, if he is lying then he is as he said, and if he is telling the truth, his Islam will not be sound (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah that the Prophet said:"Do not swear by your forefathers or by false gods (At-Tawaghit) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever among you swears and says: By Al-Lat, let him say: La ilaha illallah (There is none worthy of worship except Allah). And whoever says to his companion: Come, let us gamble, then let him give in charity (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that the Prophet said:"There is nothing on Earth that I swear an oath upon, and I see that something else is better, but I do that which is better (from eng-nasai.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever swears an oath, then sees something better than it, let him do that which is better (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah that the Messenger of Allah said:"If any one of you swears an oath, then he sees something better than it, let him offer expiation for his oath, and look at what is better and do it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If you swear an oath, offer expiation for your oath, then do that which is better (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah that the Prophet said:"If you swear an oath, then you see something better than it, then offer expiation for your oath, and do that which is better (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Adiyy bin Hatim said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever swears an oath, then sees something better than it, let him do that which is better and offer expiation for his oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Adiyy bin Hatim said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever swears an oath, then sees something better than it, let him leave his oath, and do that which is better, and offer expiation for it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Adiyy bin Hatim said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever swears an oath, then sees something better than it, let him do that which is better and leave his oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah said:"The Prophet said to me: 'If you swear an oath, and you see something that is better, then do that which is better and offer expiation for your oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If you swear an oath, then you see something that is better, then do that which is better and offer expiation for your oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah said to me: 'If you swear an oath, then you see something that is better, do that which is better, and offer expiation for your oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no vow and no oath concerning that which one does not possess, nor to commit sin, nor to sever the ties of kinship (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet said:"Whoever swears an oath and says: 'If Allah wills', then if he wishes he may go ahead, and if he wishes he may not, without having broken his oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"I entered the house of the Prophet with him and there was some bread and vinegar. The Messenger of Allah said: 'Eat; what a good condiment is vinegar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qais bin Abi Gharazah said:"The Prophet came to us when we were in the marketplace and said: 'This marketplace is filled with idle talk and (false) oaths, so mix some charity with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah forbade vows and said:"They do not bring any good; they are just a means of taking wealth from the miserly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade vows and said: 'They do not change anything; they are just a means of taking wealth from the miserly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'A vow does not bring anything forward or put it back; it is just a means of taking wealth from the miserly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"A vow does not bring anything to the son of Adam that has not been decreed for him. It is just a means of taking wealth from the miserly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Do not make vows, for a vow does not have any impact on the Qadar. Rather it is just a means of taking wealth from the miserly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever vows to obey Allah, let him obey Him, and whoever vows to disobey Allah, let him not disobey Him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Whoever vows to obey Allah, let him obey Him, and whoever vows to disobey Allah, let him not disobey Him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'Whoever vows to obey Allah, let him obey Him, and whoever vows to disobey Allah, let him not disobey Him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah passed by a man who was leading another man by a rope. The Prophet took it, and cut it, and he said: 'It is a vow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that the Prophet said:"There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience, and no vow concerning that which the son of Adam does not possess (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uqbah bin 'Amir said:"My sister vowed to walk to the House of Allah, and she told me to ask the Messenger of Allah about that. So I asked the Prophet for her and he said: 'Let her walk, and let her ride (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uqbah bin 'Amir narrated that he asked the Prophet about a sister of his who had vowed to walk, barefoot and bareheaded. The Prophet said to him:"Tell her to cover her head and ride, and fast for three days (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"A woman traveled by sea and vowed to fast for a month, but she died before she could fast. Her sister came to the Prophet and told him about that, and he told her to fast on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that Sa'd bin 'Ubadah asked the Messenger of Allah about a vow which his mother had sworn, but she died before she could fulfill it. He said:"Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Sa'd bin 'Ubadah asked the Messenger of Allah about a vow which his mother had sworn, but she died before she could fulfill it. The Messenger of Allah said: 'Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Sa'd bin 'Ubadah came to the Prophet and said: 'My mother died and she had sworn a vow, but she did not fulfill it.' He said: 'Fulfill it on her behalf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar, that 'Umar had vowed to spend a night in 'Itikaf during the Jahiliyyah. He asked the Messenger of Allah about that, and he ordered him to perform the 'Itikaf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Umar had made a vow to spend a night in 'Itikaf in Al-Masjid Al-Haram. He asked the Messenger of Allah about that, and he ordered him to perform the 'Itikaf (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that 'Umar had vowed -during the Jahiliyyah- to spend a day in 'Itikaf. He asked the Messenger of Allah about that, and he commanded him to perform the 'Itikaf (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever swears an oath and says: If Allah wills, then he has made an exception (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever swears an oath and says: If Allah wills, then he has made an exception (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever swears an oath and says, 'If Allah wills,' then he has the choice: If he wishes, he may go ahead, and if he wishes he may not (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir that the Messenger of Allah said:"The expiation for vows is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience, and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience, and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience, and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience, and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience, and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran bin Husain said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience, and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran bin Husain, may Allah be pleased with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience, and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran bin Husain said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There is no vow at a moment of anger and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran said:The Messenger of Allah said: "There is no vow at a moment of anger and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran said:The Messenger of Allah said: "There is no vow at a moment of anger and its expiation is the expiation for an oath." It was said: "Az-Zubair did not hear this Hadith from 'Imran bin Husain (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran bin Husain said:The Messenger of Allah said: "There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience or at the time of anger, and its expiation is the expiation for an oath (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran bin Husain said:The Messenger of Allah said: "There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience and its expiation is the expiation for an oath." Mansur bin Zadhan contradicted him in his wording (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah that the Prophet said:"There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience or with regard to that which the son of Adam does not possess (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Imran bin Husain said:The Messenger of Allah said: "There is no vow to commit an act of disobedience or with regard to that which the son of Adam does not possess (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Prophet saw a man being supported by two others and said: 'What is this?' They said: 'He vowed to walk to the House of Allah.' He said: 'Allah has no need for this man to torture himself. Tell him to ride (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever swears an oath and says: "If Allah wills, then he has made an exception (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'In this world, women and perfume have been made dear to me, and my comfort has been provided in prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Women and perfume have been made dear to me, but my comfort has been provided in prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"Nothing was dearer to the Messenger of Allah after women than horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Whoever has two wives and is inclined to favor one of them over the other, he will come on the Day of Resurrection with half of his body leaning (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that the Prophet said:"The superiority of 'Aishah to other women is like the superiority of Tharid to other kinds of food (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"The superiority of 'Aishah to other women is like the superiority of Tharid to other kinds of food (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'O Umm Salamah, do not bother me about 'Aishah, for by Allah, the Revelation has never come to me under the blanket of any of you apart from her (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The people used to try to bring their gifts (to the Prophet) on 'Aishah's day, hoping thereby to earn the pleasure of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Allah sent Revelation to the Prophet when I was with him, so I got up and closed the door between him and I. When it was taken off him, he said to me: 'O 'Aishah, Jibril sends greetings of Salam to you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said to her:"Jibril sends greetings of Salam to you." She said: "And upon him be peace and the mercy of Allah and His blessings; you see what we do not (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'O 'Aishah, this is Jibril and he is sending greetings of Salam to you.'" The same (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"I noticed that he was not there one night" and he quoted the rest of the Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "I have been commanded to fight the people until they say La ilaha illallah, and whoever says it, his life and his wealth are safe from me, except for a right that is due, and his reckoning will be with Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that An-Nu'man bin Salim said:"I heard Aws say: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] came to us when we were in a tent.'" And he quoted the same Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "No person is killed wrongfully, but a share of responsibility for his blood will be upon the first son of Adam, because he was the first one to set the precedence, of killing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr bin Al-'As said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'By the One in Whose Hand is my soul, killing a believer is more grievous before Allah than the extinction of the whole world (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "The extinction of the whole world is less significant before Allah than killing a Muslim man (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"Killing a believer is more grievous before Allah than the extinction of the whole world (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"Killing a believer is more grievous before Allah than the extinction of the whole world (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buraidah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Killing a believer is more grievous before Allah than the extinction of the whole world (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The first thing concerning which a person will be brought to account will be the Salah, and the first thing concerning which scores will be settled among the people, will be bloodshed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The first matter concerning which judgment will be passed among the people will be bloodshed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "The first matter concerning which scores will be settled among the people on the Day of Resurrection will be bloodshed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The first matter concerning which scores will be settled among the people on the Day of Resurrection will be bloodshed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Shurahbil said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The first matter concerning which scores will be settled among the people on the Day of Resurrection will be bloodshed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The first matter concerning which scores will be settled among the people will be bloodshed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zaid bin Thabit said:"This Verse - 'And whoever kills a believer intentionally, his recompense is Hell' - was revealed six months after the Verse which was revealed in Surat Al-Furqan (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Bakr said:"I heard Anas say: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: The major sins are: Associating others with Allah (Shirk), disobeying one's parents, killing a soul (murder) and speaking falsely (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "The major sins are: Associating others with Allah, disobeying parents, killing a soul (murder) and swearing a false oath knowingly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Ghalib said:"Aishah said: 'O 'Ammar! Do you not know that it is not permissible to shed the blood of a Muslim except in three cases: a life for a life, a man who commits adultery after being married (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Arfajah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'After me there will be many calamities and much evil behavior. Whoever wants to create division among the Ummah (of Muhammad [SAW]) when they are all united, strike him with the sword (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Usamah bin Sharik said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Any man who goes out and tries to create division among my Ummah, strike his neck (kill him) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"Eighty men from 'Ukl came to the Messenger of Allah [SAW]" and he (the narrator) mentioned a similar report up to the words: "And he did not have (their wounds) cauterized." And he said: "They killed the herdsman (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from 'Abdul-A'la:A similar report was narrated from 'Abdul-A'la (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"Some people raided the milk camels of the Messenger of Allah [SAW]. He caught them and had their hands and feet cut off and their eyes gouged out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah:"Some people raided the milk camels of the Messenger of Allah [SAW]. They were brought to the Prophet [SAW], and the Prophet [SAW] had their hands and feet cut off and their eyes gouged out." This is the wording of Ibn Al-Muthanna (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham, from his father, that:Some people raided the camels of the Messenger of Allah [SAW]. He had their hands and feet cut off and their eyes gouged out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:From the Messenger of Allah [SAW]: "The Verse about Al-Muharabah was revealed concerning them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Prophet [SAW] only had the eyes of those people gouged out, because they had gouged out the eyes of the herdsmen (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:A Jewish man killed an Ansari girl for her jewelry, and threw her in an empty well, and crushed her head with a rock. He was caught and the Messenger of Allah [SAW] ordered that he be stoned to death (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:A man killed an Ansari girl for her jewelry, then he threw her in an empty well, and crushed her head with a rock. The Prophet [SAW] ordered that he be stoned to death (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas who said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to stress charity in his sermons, and prohibit mutilation (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If a slave runs away, no Salah will be accepted from him until he goes back to his masters (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jarir used to narrate from the Prophet [SAW]:"If a slave runs away, no Salah will be accepted from him, and if he dies he will die a disbeliever." A slave of Jarir's ran away, and he caught him and struck his neck (killing him) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir bin 'Abdullah said:"If a slave runs away to the land of Shirk, there is no protection (or immunity) for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If a slave runs away to the land of Shirk, it becomes permissible to shed his blood (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jarir that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "If a slave runs away to the land of Shirk, it becomes permissible to shed his blood (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:"Any slave who runs away to the land of Shirk, it becomes permissible to shed his blood (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:"Any slave who runs away to the land of Shirk, it becomes permissible to shed his blood (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:"Any slave who runs away from his masters and joins the enemy, he has made it permissible to shed his blood (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever changes his religion, kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever changes his religion, kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever changes his religion, kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Hasan said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever changes his religion, kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that :Ibn 'Abbas said: "The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever changes his religion, kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that :'Ali came to some people of Az-Zutt, who worshipped idols, and burned them. Ibn 'Abbas said: "But the Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever changes his religion, kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Barzah Al-Aslami said:"A man spoke harshly to Abu Bakr As-Siddiq, and I said: 'Shall I kill him?' He told me off, and said: 'That is not for anyone after the Messenger of Allah [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Barzah said:"Abu Bakr became infuriated with a man." He said: "If you tell me to, I will do it." He said: "By Allah, that is not for any human being after Muhammad [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Nasr narrated from Abu Barzah, that he said:"I came to Abu Bakr when he had spoken harshly to a man who had answered back. I said: 'Shall I not strike his neck (kill him)?' He rebuked me, and said: 'That is not for anyone after the Messenger of Allah [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever ties a know and blows on it, he has practiced magic; and whoever practices magic, he has committed Shirk; and whoever hangs up something (as an amulet) will be entrusted to it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'Whoever fights to protect his wealth and is killed, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'Whoever fights to protect his wealth and is killed, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr bin Al-'As that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Whoever is killed defending his wealth and is killed unjustly, Paradise will be his (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abudllah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever is killed defending his wealth, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibrahim bin Muhammad bin Talhah that he heard 'Abdullah bin 'Amr narrating:From the Prophet [SAW], that he said: "If a person's wealth is sought without right, and he fights (to protect it) and is killed, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever is killed defending his wealth, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Zaid that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Whoever is killed defending his wealth, he is a martyr." This is an abridgement of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Zaid that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Whoever is killed defending his wealth, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sulaiman bin Buraidah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever is killed defending his wealth, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ja'far said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever is killed defending his wealth and is killed unjustly, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Zaid that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Whoever fights to protect his wealth and is killed, he is a martyr. Whoever fights to protect himself, he is a martyr. Whoever fights to protect his family is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Ja'far said:"I was sitting with Suwaid bin Muqarrin, and he said: The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Whoever is killed defending himself against injustice, he is a martyr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Az-Zubair that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Whoever unsheathes his sword and starts to strike the people with it, it is permissible to shed his blood (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Razzaq narrated:'Abdur-Razzaq narrated a similar report with the same chain, but he did not attribute it to the Prophet [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Az-Zubair said:"Whoever wields a weapon and starts to strike (the people) with it, it is permissible to shed his blood (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that :The Prophet [SAW] said: "Whoever bears weapons against us, he is not one of us (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sa'd bin Abi Waqas told us that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Fighting a Muslim is Kufr and defaming him is evildoing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Defaming a Muslim is evildoing and fighting him is Kufr." (Sahih Mawquf) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Defaming a Muslim is evildoing and fighting him is Kufr." (Sahih Mawquf) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Abdullah, from his father, that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Defaming a Muslim is evildoing and fighting him is Kufr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sufyan bin Zubaid, from Abu Wa'il, from 'Abdullah:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Defaming a Muslim is evildoing and fighting him is Kufr.'" I said to Abu Wa'il: "Did you hear it from 'Abdullah?" He said: "Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Defaming a Muslim is evildoing and fighting him is Kufr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Wa'il said:"'Abdullah said: 'Defaming a Muslim is evildoing and fighting him is Kufr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"Fighting a believer is Kufr and defaming him is evildoing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jundab bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever fights for a cause that is not clear, advocating tribalism, getting angry for the sake of tribalism, then he has died a death of Jahiliyyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If a Muslim points a weapon at his fellow Muslim, then they are on the brink of Hell, and if he kills him, then they will both fall into it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:"If two Muslim men bear weapons against each other, then they are both on the brink of Hell. And if one of them kills the other, they will both be in Hell (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "If two Muslims confront each other with swords and one of them kills the other, they will both be in Hell (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:"The Messenger [SAW] said: 'If two Muslims meet (and fight) with their swords and one of them kills the other, the killer and the slain will both be in Hell (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If two Muslims fight with swords, and one of them kills the other, then the killer and the slain will both be in Hell (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :The Prophet [SAW] said: "Do not revert to disbelievers after I am gone, striking the necks of one another (killing one another) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Do not revert to disbelievers after I am gone, striking the necks of one another (killing one another). No man is to be punished for the sins of his father, or for the sins of his brother (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Do not revert to disbelievers after I am gone, striking the necks of one another (killing one another). No man is to be punished for the sins of his father, or the sins of his brother (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Masruq that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Do not revert to disbelievers after I am gone." It is Mursal (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakrah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Do not revert to misguidance after I am gone, striking the necks of one another (killing one another) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jarir that :During the Farewell Pilgrimage, the Messenger of Allah [SAW] asked the people to be quiet and listen, and said: "Do not revert to disbelievers after I am gone, striking the necks of one another (killing one another) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said to me: 'Ask the people to be quiet and listen.' Then he said: 'I do not want to see you after I am gone reverting to disbelievers, striking the necks of one another (killing one another) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:Fatimah sent word to Abu Bakr asking for her inheritance from the Prophet, from his charity and what was left of the Khumus of Khaibar. Abu Bakar said: "The Messenger of Allah said: 'We are not inherited from (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Mutarrif said:"Ash-Shabi was asked about the share of the Prophet and what he chose for himself. He said: 'The share of the Prophet was like the share of any Muslim man, and what he chose for himself was something precious; he chose whatever he wanted to (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubadah bin As-Samit said:"We pledged to the Messenger of Allah to hear and obey, both in times of hardship and ease." And he mentioned similarly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"You have to obey when you feel energetic and when you feel tired, during your ease and your hardship, and when others are preferred over you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:"I pledged to the Messenger of Allah to be sincere toward ever Muslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jarir said:"I pledged to the Prophet to hear and obey and to be sincere toward every Muslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"We did not give our pledge to the Messenger of Allah for death, rather we pledged not to flee (from battle) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Yazid bin Abi 'Ubaid said:"I said to Salamah bin Al-Akwa': 'What pledge did you make to the Prophet on the Day of Al-Hudaibiyyah?' He said: 'For death (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that a man came to the Prophet and said:"I have come pledging to emigrate (Hijrah), and I have left my parents weeping." He said: "Go back to them, and make them smile as you made them weep (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Kathir bin Murrah that Abu Fatimah told him that he said:"O Messenger of Allah, tell me of an action that I may do and persist in it." The Messenger of Allah said to him: "You should emigrate, for there is nothing like it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said on the Day of the Conquest (of Makkah): "There is no more emigration (Hijrah), rather there is Jihad and intention. When you are called to moblize (for Jihad) then do so (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Nu'aim bin Dijajah said:"I heard 'Umar bin Al-Khattab say: 'There is no more emigration (Hijrah) after the death of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:I pledged to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to perform Salah, pay the Zakah, be sincere toward every Muslim and forsake the idolaters (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir said:"I came to the Messenger of Allah" and he mentioned something similar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm 'Atiyyah said:"The Messenger of Allah accepted our pledge that we would not wail (for the dead) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrted from a man from Al Ash-Sharid, who was called 'Amr, that his father said:"Among the delegation of Thaqif there was a man who suffered from leprosy. The Prophet sent word to him saying: 'Go back, for I have accepted your pledge (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Hirmas bin Ziyad said:"I stretched forth my hand to the Prophet for him to accept my pledge, when I was a child, but he did not accept my pledge (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"We used to pledge to the Messenger of Allah to hear and obey, the he said: 'In as much as you can (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"When we gave our pledge to the Messenger of Allah to hear and obey, he would say to us: 'In as much as you can (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jarir bin 'Abdullah said:"I gave my pledge to the Prophet to hear and obey, and he told me to add the words.' In as much as you can, and to be since toward every Muslim"'. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umaimah bin Ruqaiqah said:"We gave pledge to the Messenger of Allah among a group of women, and he said to us: 'In as much as you can and are able (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Yahya bin Husain said:"I heard my grandmother say: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah say, during the Farewell Pilgrimage: If an Ethiopian slave is appointed over you who rules according to the Book of Allah, then listen to him and obey (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever obeys me, obeys Allah, and whoever disobeys me, disobeys Allah. Whoever obeys my governor (Amir), he has obeyed me, and whoever disobeys my governor, he has disobeyed me (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas (concerning the Verse):"O you who believe! Obey Allah and obey the Messenger (Muhammad). That he said: This was revealed concerning 'Abdullah bin Hudhaifah bin Qais bin 'Adiyy, whom the Messenger of Allah appointed in charge of an expedition (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Tamim Ad-Dari said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Religion is sincerity (An-Nasihah).' They said: 'To whom, O Messenger of Allah?' he said: 'To Allah, to His Book, to His Messenger, to the imams of the Muslims, and to their common folk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Tamim Ad-Dari said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Religion is sincerity (An-Nasihah).' They said: 'To whom, O Messenger of Allah? He said: 'To Allah, to His Book, to His Messenger, to the imams of the Muslims and to their common folk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Religion is sincerity (An-Nasihah)." The said: "To whom, O Messenger of Allah?" he said: "To Allah, to His Book, to His Messenger, to the imams of the Muslims and to their common folk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Muslim must hear and obey whether he likes it or not, unless he is commanded to commit an act of disobedience. If he is commanded to commit an act of disobedience, then he is not required to hear and obey (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Tariq bin Shihab that:a man asked the Prophet, when he had put his leg in the stirrup: "Which kind of Jihad is best?'" He said: " a word of truth spoken before an unjust rulers (from eng-nasai.txt)
it was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"You will become keen for positions of authority, but that will become a regret and loss. What a good life they will live, but how hard it will be for them when they die (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buraidah, from his father, that:the Messenger of Allah offered the 'Aqiqah for Al-Hasan and Al-Husain (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salman bin 'Amir Ad-Dabbi that the Messenger of Allah said:"For a boy there shoud be an 'Aqiqah, so shed blood for him, and remove the harm from him (from eng-nasai.txt)
it was narrated from Um Kurz that the Messenger of Allah said:"for a boy two sheep, Mukafaatan (of equal age), and for a girl, one sheep (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Kurz that the Messenger of Allah said:"For a boy two sheep, Mukafaatan (of equal age), and for a girl, one sheep (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that umm Kurz said:"I came to the Prophet and asked him about the sacrificial meat. I heard him say: 'For a boy, two sheep, and for a girl, one sheep, and it does not matter if they are male or female (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umma Kurz that the Messenger of Allah said:"For a boy, two sheep, and or a girl, one sheep, and it does not matter if they are male or female (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah offered an 'Aqiqah for Al-Hasan and Al-Husain, may Allah be please with them, two rams for each (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Qatadah, from Al-Hasan, from Samurh bin Jundab that the Messenger of Allah said:"Every boy is in pledge for his 'Aqiqah, so slaughter (the animal) for him on the seventh day, and shave his head, and a name (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Habib bin Ash-Shahid:"Muhammad bin Sirin said to me: 'Ask Al-Hasan (Al-Basri) from whom he heard this Hadith about the 'Aqiqah.' I asked him about that and he said: 'I heard it from Samurh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no fara' and no' Atirah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah forbade Fara' and 'Atirah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah saw a dead sheep that belonged to the freed slave woman of Maimunah, and had come from the Sadaqah." He said: "Why don't you take off its hide and make use of it?" They said: "It is dead meat." He said: "It is only unlawful to eat it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas:"Maimunah told me that a sheep died, and the Prophet said: 'Why don't you tan its skin and make use of it'? (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Prophet passed by a sheep belonging to Maimunah that had died and said: 'Why don't you take its skin and tan it and make use of it'? (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Prophet passed by a dead sheep and said: 'Why don't you make use of its skin'? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sawdah, the wife of the Prophet, said:"A sheep of ours died, and we tanned its skin, and continued to make Nabidh in it until it wore out (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Any skin that is tanned has been purified (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet was asked about the hides of dead animals." He said: "Tanning it purifies it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about the hides of dead animals." He said: "Tanning it purifies it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"The dead animal is purified by tanning it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Prophet said: 'The dead animal is purified by tanning it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Ukaim said:"The letter of the Messenger of Allah was read to us when I was a young boy: 'Do not make use of the skins and sinew of dead animals (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that'Abdullah bin 'Ukaim said:"The Messenger of Allah wrote to us: 'Do not make use of the skins and sinew of dead animals (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:the Messenger of Allah ordered that the hides of dead animals be made use of if they had been tanned. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Al-Malih, from his father, that:the Prophet forbade (the use of) the hides of Predators. (Hassan) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Miqdam bin Ma di Karib said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade silk, gold and saddlecloths (Miyathir) made of leopard skin (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Khalid said:"Al-Miqdam bin Madikarib came to visit Muawiyah and said to him: I adjure you by Allah, do you know that the messenger of Allah forbade wearing the Hides of predators and riding on them? He said: 'yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas, form Maimunah, that:a mouse fell into some cooking fat and died. The Prophet was asked (about that) and he said: "Throw it away, and whatever is around it, and eat (the rest) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn' Abbas, from Maimunah, that:the Prophet was asked about a mouse that had fallen into some solid cooking fat. He said. "Take it, and whatever is around it, and throw it away (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn' Abbas, from Maimunah, that:the Prophet was asked about a mouse that fell into the cooking fat. He said: "If it (the fat) is solid, then throw it away, and whatever is around it. If it is liquid then do not use it at all."(Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn ' Abbas said:" I heard Sa'eed bin Jubair say: 'The Messenger of Allah passed by a dead goat and said: "Why didn't the owners of this sheep makes use of its skin? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that the Prophet said:"If a fly falls into the vessel of one of you, let him dip it in (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Adiyy bin Hatim:A similar report was narrated from 'Adiyy bin Hatim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah commanded that dogs be killed, except those which were exempted (from eng-nasai.txt)
Salim bin 'Abdullah narrated that his father said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah raise his voice with the command to kill dogs. All dogs were to be killed except dogs used for hunting or herding livestock (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah commanded that all dogs be killed except dogs used for hunting or herding livestock (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali bin Abi Talib that the Prophet said:"The angels do not enter a house in which there is a picture, a dog or a person who is Junub (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Talhah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: '; The angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or a picture (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'whoever keeps a dog, two Qirats will be detracted from his reward each day, except a trained hunting dog, or a dog for herding livestock (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said:' whoever keeps a dog except one that is trained for hunting or a dog for herding livestock, two Qirats will be deducted from his reward each day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever keeps a dog. Except a dog for hunting or herding livestock, two Qirats will be deducted from his reward each day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal that the Prophet said:"Whoever keeps a dog, except a dog for hunting, herding livestock or farming, one Qurat will be deducted from his reward each day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever keep s dog except a dog for hunting, farming or herding livestock, on e Qurat will be deducted from his good deeds each day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever keeps a dog that is not a dog used for hunting, herding livestock or guarding land, two qirats will be deducted from his reward each day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Bakr bin 'Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Harith bin Hisham that her heard Abu Mas ud 'Uqbah say:"The Messenger of Allah forbade the price of a dog, the gift of a female fornicator and the fees of a fortuneteller."( Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Prophet said: 'The price of a dog, the fees of a fortuneteller and the gift of a female fornicator are not permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Waqi bin Khadij said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The worst of earnings arte the gift of a female fornicator, the price of a dog and the earnings of a cupper (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet forbade the price of cats and dogs, except hunting. (Da if) Abu Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasa I) said: The Hadith of Hajjaj from Hammad bin Salamah is not authentic: (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Adiyy bin Hatim that the Messenger of Allah said:"If you see your arrow in it. And you do not see any other mark, and you know that (Your arrow) killed it, then eat it (from eng-nasai.txt)
it was narrated that 'Adiyy bin Hatim said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, I shoot game and I follow its tracks after of night. He said: 'If you find your arrow in it, and no predator has eaten from it, then eat it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Tha'labah from the Prophet that:the one who catches up with the game (he shot) after three days may eat from it, unless it has turned rotten (from eng-nasai.txt)
(It was narrated that Ash-Sha bi said:" I heard 'Adiyy bin Hatim say: 'I asked the Messenger of Allah about the Mirad and he said: "If the sharp point hits 9the game) then eat, bu (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Adiyy bin Hatim said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about hunting with the Mirad and the said: 'If the sharp edge hits (the game), then eat, but if the broad edge of it strikes it, do not eat it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Adiyy bin Htim said:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about hunting with Mirad and he said: 'If the sharp edge hits (the game), then eat, but if the broad edge of it strikes it, then it has been killed by a blow (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas said:"We disturbed a rabbit in Marr Az-Zahran so I caught it, and brought it to Abu Talhah who slaughtered it, and sent me with its thighs and haunches to the Prophet and he accepted it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Safwan said:"I caught two rabbits but I could not find anything with which to slaughter then, so I slaughtered them with a sharp-edged stone. I asked the Prophet about that and he commanded me to eat them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah was asked about mastigures when he was on the Minbar and he said? "I do not eat them, but I do not say that they are Haram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that a man said:"O Messenger of Allah what do you think about mastigures?" He said: "I do not eat them but I do not say that they arte Haram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Thabit bin Wadi ah said:"A man brought a mastigure to the Messenger of Allah and he started looking at it, and turning it over. He said: 'A nation was transformed, it is not known what they did, and I do not know if this is one of them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from al-Bara bin Azib, from Thabnit bin Wadiah, that:a man brought a mastigure to the Prophet and he said? "A nation was transformed, and Allah knows best (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Abi 'Ammar said:"I asked Jabir bin 'Abdullah about hyenas and he told me to eat them. I said: 'Are they game (that can be hunted)? He said: 'Yes,' I said: 'Did you hear that from the Messenger of Allah?' He said: 'Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the prophet said:'Every predator possessing fangs is forbidden to eat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Tha labah Al-Khushani that:the Prophet forbade eating any predator that has fangs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Tha'labah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Wealth taken by force is (not permissible), any predator that has fangs is not permissible, and any animal used for target practice is not permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"On the Day of Khaibar, the Messenger of Allah forbade the flesh of donkeys but he permitted the flesh of horses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah allowed us to eat the flesh of horses but he forbade the flesh of donkeys (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:" On the Day of Khaibar, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) allowed us to eat the flesh of horses but he forbade us from the flesh of donkeys (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"We used to eat horse meat during the time of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Khalid bin al-walid that he heard the Messe4nger of Allah say:"It is not permissible to eat the flesh of horses, mules or donkeys (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Khalid bin Al-Walid that:the Messenger of Allah forbade eating the flesh of horses, mules and donkeys, and any predator that has fangs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ata, that Jabir said:"we used to eat horseflesh. ": I said: "And mules?" He said: "No (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al- Hasan bin Muhammad, and 'Abdullah bin Muhammad that their father said:"Ali said to Ibn'Abbas, may Allah be please with them both: The Prophet forbade Mut'ah marriage, and the flesh of domesticated donkeys on the Day of Khaibar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Hasan bin Muhammad, and 'Abdullah bin Muhammad, from their father, that 'Ali bin Abi Talib may Allah be please with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade Mut'ah and the flesh of domesticated donkeys on the Day of Khaibar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah forbade (the flesh of) domesticated donkeys on the Day of Khaibar (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Ibn 'Umar:A similar report was narrated from Ibn 'Umar, but he did not mention Khaibar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara said:"On the Day of Khaibar, the Messenger of Allah forbade the flesh of domesticated donkeys, cooked or raw (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Tha'labah Al-khushani that:the Messenger of Allah forbade eating any -predator with fangs, and the flesh of domesticated donkeys (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"On the Day of Khaibar we ate the flesh of horses, and onagers, but the Prophet forbade us (from eating) donkeys."(sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:on the Day of Khaibar, the Prophet of Allah forbade eating any birds with talons and any predators with fangs. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah, that the Prophet (said), concerning the water of the sea:"Its water is pure (and Purification) and its 'dead meat' is permissible (to eat) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Uthman that:a physician made mention of the use of frogs in a remedy in the presence of the Messenger of Allah and the Messengher of Allah forbade killing them. (sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ya fur that he heard 'Abdullah bin Abi Awfa says:"We went on seven campaigns with the Messenger of Allah and we used to eat locusts (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abuy ya fur said:"I asked 'Abdullah bin Abu Awfa about killing locusts and he said: I went on six campaigns with the Messenger of Allah hand we ate locusts (from eng-nasai.txt)
Was narrated from Abu Hurairah from the Messenger of Allah:"An ant bit one of the prophets, and he ordered that the ant nest be burned. Then Allah revealed to him: "One ant bit you, and you destroyed one of the nations that glorify Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Abu Hurairah:A similar report was narrated from Abu Hurairah, but was not attributed to the Prophet (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ummm Salamah that the Prophet said:"Whoever sees the new crescent of Dhul-Hijjah and wants to offer a sacrifice, let him not remove any of his hair or nails until he has offered the sacrifice (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab said:"Whoever wants to offer a sacrifice when dhul-Hijjah begins, let him not remove anything from his hair or nails." I (the narrator) mentioned that to 'Ikrimah, and he said: "Should he not also keep away from women and perfume? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Umm Salamah that the Messenger of Allah said:"when the (first) ten (days of Dhul-Jijjah) begin, and one of you wants to offer a sacrifice, let him not remove anything from his hair or skin (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi that:'Abdullah told him that the Messenger of Allah used to offer the sacrifice at the prayer place (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah offered the sacrifice obn the Day of Sacrifice in Al-Madinah. He said: "if he did not offer the Nahr (sacrifice a camel) he would have offered Dhabihah (Sacrificed a sheep) at the prayer place (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali, may Allah be pleased with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah commanded us to examine the eyes and ears (of animals), and no (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:" The Messenger of Allah commanded us to examine the eyes and ears (of animals for sacrifice) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"Messenger of Allah forbade us from sacrificing an animal with a broken horn." I (the narrator) mentioned that to Sa'eed bin Al_Musayyab and he said: "Yes, m unless half or more of the horn is missing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Do not slaughter anything but a Musinnah, unless that is difficult, in which case you can slaughter a Jadh'ah sheep (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amair that:the Messenger of Allah gave him some sheep to distribute among his Companions. A small goat was left over and he mentioned that to the Messenger of Allah. He said: "Sacrifice it yourself (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir that:the Messenger of Allah divided some sacrificial animals among his Companions, and I got a Jadh'ah sheep. I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, I got a Jadh'ah sheep.' He said: 'Sacrifice it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uqbah bin 'Amir said:"The Messenger of Allah divided some sacrificial animals among his Companions, and I got a Jadh'ah sheep. I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, I got a Jadh'ah sheep.' He said: 'Sacrifice it (from eng-nasai.txt)
it was narrated that 'Uqbah bin 'Amir said:'We sacrificed a Jadh'ah sheep with the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated form Anas that:the Messenger of Allah used to sacrifice two rams. And Anas said: "And I sacrifice two rams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ans said:"The Messenger of Allah sacrificed two Amlah rams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Prophet sacrificed two horned, Amlah rams, slaughtering them with his own hand, pronouncing the name of Allah, and saying: 'Allahu Akbar, and placing his foot on their sides (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenge of Allah addressed us on the Day of Sacrifice, and he went toward two Amlah rams and sacrificed them." An abridgment. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Adbur-Rahman bin Abi Bakrah that his father said:"Then he" meaning the Prophet on the Day of Sacrifice - "Went toward two Amlah rams and sacrificed them, then (he went toward) a small flock of sheep and distributed them among us." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah sacrificed a horned, intact ram, with black feet some black at the stomach and black around its eyes." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij Said:"When distributing the spoils of war, the Messenger of Allah used to make ten sheep equivalent to one camel." Shu'bah said: "I know most if it from what I heard form Sa'eed bin Masruq, and Sufyan narrated it to me." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"We were with the Mesenger of Allah on a journey, when the Day of Sacrifice came, so we shared a camel among ten men, and a cow among seven (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"We would make Tamattu' when the Prophet was with us, and we would sacrifice a cow on behalf of seven people, sharing it among ourselves." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that:a wolf bit a sheep so he slaughtered it with Marwah, and the Prophet allowed him to eat it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Rafi bin Khadij that the Messenger of Allah said:"If the blood is shed and the name of Allah is mentioned, then eat, unless (it is slaughtered) with teeth or nails (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Asma bint Abi Bakr said:"We slaughtered (Naharna) a horse during the time of the Messenger of Allah and ate it". (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that:a wolf attacked a sheep so they slaughtered it with a Marwah, and the Prophet allowed it to be eaten (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Ushara' that his father said:"I said: "O Messenger of Allah, is slaughtering only in the throat or upper chest?" He said: 'If you stab it in the thigh, that will suffice,"'(Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Shaddad bin Aws said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah has decreed proficiency in all things, so when you kill, kill well, and when you slaughter, slaughter well. Let one of you sharpen his blade and spare suffering to the animal he slaughters (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah sacrificed two horned, Amlah rams, saying: 'Allah Akbar and pronouncing the Name of Allah. I saw him slaughtering them with his own hand, and placing his foot on their sides." I said: You heard it from Him? He said: Yes. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah used to sacrifice two pronounce the name of Allah and say: 'Allah Akabar,' and I saw him slaughtering them with his own hand, and placing his foot on their sides "(Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"I saw him: - meaning the Prophet - "slaughtering them with his own hand, and placing his foot on their sides, pronouncing the name of Allah and saying: 'Allah Akbar,' (sacrificing) two horned, Amlah rams." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik told them that:the Prophet sacrificed two Amlah horned rams, putting his foot on their sides and slaughtering them pronouncing the name of Allah, and saying: Allahu Akbar."" (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that:the Messenger of Allah slaughtered some of his sacrificial animals with his won hand, and someone else slaughtered some of them. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Asma said:"We slaughtered (Naharna) a horse during the time of Messenger of Allah and ate it." In his hadith Qutaibah (one of the narrators) said: "And we ate its meat." (Sahih ) 'Abdah bin sulaiman contradicted him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Asma said:"We slaughtered (naharna) a horse during the time of the Messenger of Allah while we were in Al-Madinah, and we ate it." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amir bin Wathilah said:"A man asked 'Ali" Did the Messenger of Allah used to tell you anything in secret that he did not tell the people?' Ali got so angry that his face turned red, and he said: 'He used not to tell me anything in secret that he di (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah forbade eating the meat of sacrificial animals after three days" (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib Said:"The Messenger of Allah has forbidden you from eating the meat of your sacrificaial animals for more than three day." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that:the Messenger of Allah forbade eating the meat of the sacrificial animals after three days then he said: "Eat, take some with you (if traveling). And store some." ( Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur'Rahman bin 'Abis that his father said:"I asked 'Aishah about the meat of the sacrificial animals and she said: 'We used to keep the trotters for the Messenger of Allah for a month, then he would eat them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu sa'eed Al-aKhudri said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade keeping the meat of the sacrificial animals for more than three days, then he said: 'Eat and feed other,"' (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Mughaffal said:"A bag of fat was thrown on the day of Khaibar, and I caught it and said: "I will not give anything of this to anyone.' I turned around and saw the Messenger of Allah there, smiling." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:some Bedouin people used to bring us meat, and we did not know whether they had mentioned the Name of Allah (when slaughtering it) or not. The Messenger of Allah said: "Messenger of Allah said: "Mention the Name of Allah and eat." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Tha'labah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: An animal that has been taken as a target is not lawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hisham bin Zaid said; "Ans and I entered upon Al-Hakam - that it, Ibn Ayyb - and there were some people shooting at a chicken in the house of the governor. He said:'The Messenger of Allah forbade using animals as targets; (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Ja'far said:"The Messenger of Allah passed by some people who were shooting arrows at a ram. He denounced that and said: 'Do not disfigure animals (by using them as targets)." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah cursed those who take anything that has a soul as a target." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said; "I heard the Messenger of Allah say:'May Allah curse the one who disfigures and animal. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not take anything that has a soul as a target (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbbas Said:"The messenger of Allah forbade us from using anything with a soul as a target." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade (eating) animals that had been taken as targets, the milk of Al-Jallalah (animals that eat dung), and drinking directly from water skins (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The best (most Pure) food that a man eats is that which he has earned himself, and a man's child (and his child's wealth) is part of his earnings" (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"Your children are part of the best of your earnings, so eat from what your children earn (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The best (most pure) food that a man eats is that which he has earned himself, and his child (and his child's wealth) is part of his earning (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The best (most pure) food that a man eats is that which he has earned himself, and his child (and his child's wealth) is part of his earning (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'There will come a time when a man will not care where his wealth comes from, whether (the source is) Halal or Haram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "There will come a time when there will be no one left who does not consume Riba, and whoever does not consume it will nevertheless be affected by residue." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah Al-Ansari that he heard the Messenger of Allah say:"Beware of taking oaths a great deal when selling, for it may help you to make a sale but it destroys the blessing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Taking oaths may help you to make a sale but it takes (blessing) away from the earnings "(Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Malik, from Nafi from'Abdullah bin 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"The two parties to a transaction both have the choice so long as they both chosen to conclude the transaction." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Yahaya, from 'Ubaidullah who said:"Nafi narrated to me from Ibn 'Umar, tht the Messenger of Allah said: 'the two parties to a transaction both have the choice so long as they have not separated, or they have chosen." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was a narrated from Ayyub, from Nafi from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "The two parties to a transaction both have the choice who long as they have not separated or one of them says to the other: 'Decide!"' (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Yahya bin Sa 'eed , who said:"Nafi narrated to us from Ibn 'Umar, who said: 'The Messenger of Allah said: There is no transaction between the two parties until they separate, unless they have chosen to conclude the transaction."" (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ismail from 'Abdullah bin Dinar, from Ibn 'Umar, who said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'When two people meet to engage in trade, the transaction between them is not binding until they separate, unless they have chosen to conclude the transaction (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sufyan, from 'Amr bin Dinar, from Ibn 'Umar, who said:the Messenger of Allah said: "When two people meet to engage in trade, the transaction between them is not binding until they separate, unless they have chosen to concluded the transaction (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sufyan, from 'Abdullah bin Dinar, from Ibn 'Umar, from the Prophet who said:"Two traders have the choice as long as they have not separated, or, they have chosen to conclude the transaction (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al_Hasan, from Samurah, that the Prophet of Allah said:"Two trades have the choice as long as until they reach a deal that suits both of them and they confirm it three times (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al- Hasan from Samurah, who said:"The Messenger of Allah said;" Two traders have the choice as long as they have not separated, or until they reach a deal that suits both of th4em or that is satisfactory (to both) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If any one of you sells a sheep or a milch- camel, let him not refrain from milking it.'' (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"whoever buys a Musarraha, if he is please with it when he milks it, he may keep it, and if he is not please with it, he may return it, along with a Sa of daters"' (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:Abu Al- Qasim said: "Whoever buys a Musarrah, he has the choice (of annulling the deal) for three days. If the wishes ti keep it, he may keep it, and if he wishes to return it, he may return it, along with a Sa of daters, not wheat." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishsh said:" The Messenger of Allah ruled that what a slave earns belongs to his guarantor (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:the Prophet forbade a town-dweller to sell for a desert- dweller, even if he was his father or brother. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"It was forbidden to us for a town-dweller to sell for a desert-dweller, even if he was his father or brother." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"It was forbidden to us for a town-dweller to sell for a desert-dweller." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'A town-dweller should not sell for a direst-dweller. Leave the people alone and let Allah provide for them from one another."" (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:the Messenger of Allah forbade artificially inflating prices, meeting traders on the way, and for a town-dweller to sell for a desert-dweller." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah forbade meeting traders on the way (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade meeting traders on the way, until one enters the market with them?" Abu Usamah acknowledged it and said: Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrate from Ibn Tawus, from his father, that Ibn 'Abbas said; "The Messenger of Allah forbade meeting the riders, and for a town-dweller." I said to Ibn 'Abbas:"What does a town-dweller (selling) for a desert-dweller mean?" he said: "He should not act as a broker for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Do and whoever meets any of them and buys from him the vendor has the choice of annulling the transaction when he comes to the marketplace (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet said:"No one of you should urge someone to cancel a sale he has already agreed upon with his brother so as to sell him his own goods (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not urge someone to cancel a sale he has already agreed upon so as to sell him your own goods, unless he bys or changes his mind (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Prophet forbade artificially inflating prices (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:the Messenger of Allah sold a drinking bowl and a blanket (for a horse of camel) to the highest bidder (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:the Messenger of Allah forbade Mulamash and Munabadha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa' eed Al- Khudri that:the Messenger of Allah forbade Mulamasah, which means touching a garment without looking at it, and Munabadha, which is where one man sells his garment to another man, by throwing it to him, without him checking it or looking at it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade two kinds of transactions: Mulamash and Munabddhah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The messenger of Allah forbade two kinds of transactions: Mulamash and Mumabadha (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade two kinds of garments, and he forbade two kinds of transactions for us: Munabadhah and Mulamasah, which are kinds of transactions which were common during the Jahiliyyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade Gharar transaction and Hasah transactions (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Uar that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not sell fruits until their condition is known. And he forbade (both) the seller and the purchaser (to engage in such a transaction) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that:the Messenger of Allah forbade selling fruits until their condition is known (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah stood up among us ad said: 'Do not sell fruits until their condition is known (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet forbade Mukhabarah, Muzabanah and Muhaqalah, and selling fruits until they were fit to eat, except in the case f 'Aray (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"the Messenger of Allah forbade selling the fruit of date palms until they are fit to eat (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "If you sell fruits to your brother then the crop fails, it is not permissible for you it takes anything from him. Why would you take the wealth of your brother unlawfully? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever sells fruit then his crop fails, he should not take (anything) from his brother." (And he said something along the lines of) "Why would anyone of you consume the wealth of his Muslim brother? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet annulled transaction in the event of crop faioure (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet forbade selling the harvest for a number of years (in advance) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that:the Prophet forbade selling fresh dates still on the tree for dried dates. Ibn 'Umar said: "Azid bin Thabit narrated to me, that Allah's Messenger permitted that in the case o 'Ayaya (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah forbade Muzabanah. Ad Muzabanah is when what is art the tops of the trees is sold for a certain amount f dried dates; if there are more then I gain, and if there are less the I lose (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the messenger of Allah forbade Muzabana, and Muzabanah means selling fresh dates still on tree for dried dates by measure, and selling fresh grapes for raisins by measure (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"the Messenger of Allah forbade Muhaqalah and Muzabana."(Hasan) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"Zaid bin Thabit told me that the Messenger of Allah granted a concession regarding the sale of 'Arays (from eng-nasai.txt)
Kharijah bin Zaid bin Thabit narrated from his father that:the Messenger of Allah granted a concession regarding 'Araya sales regarding dried dates and fresh dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that:the Messenger of Allah granted a concession allowing Araya sales by estimation (from eng-nasai.txt)
Zaid bin Thabit narrated that:the Messenger of Allah granted a concession allowing 'Araya sales for dried dates by estimation (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated the Zaid bin Thabit sadi:"The Messenger of Allah granted a concession allowing 'Araya sales for fresh dates and for dried dates, but he did not allow anything other than that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Au Hurairah that the prophet granted a concession allowing estimation for 'Ararya sales, so long as they were five Wasq or less then that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sahl bin Abi Hathamah that the Prophet forbade selling fruits before their condition was known, but he granted a concession allowing 'Araya sales by estimate, so its people could eat fresh dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
Rafi bin Khadij and Sahl Bi Abi Hathamah narrated that the Messenger of Allah forbade Muzabanah, which means selling fresh dates still on the tree for dried dates, except in cases of 'Araya, for which he gave permission. (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Bashir bin yasar that the Companions of the Messenger of Allah said:"The Messenger of Allah granted a concession allowing 'Araya sales by estimate (from eng-nasai.txt)
it was narrated that Sa'd said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about (buying) fresh dates with dried dates, and he said to those who were around him: 'Will fresh dates decrease (in weight or volume) when they dry out?" they said Yes,' so he forbade that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa 'd bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah was asked about (buying) said; 'Will fresh dates decrees (in weight or volume) when they dry out? 'They said 'yes so he forbade that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullahsaid:"The Messenger of Allah forbade selling a heap of dried dates whose volume is unknown for known volume of dried dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Zubair narrated that he heard Jabir bin 'Abdullah say:"The Prophet said: ' A heap of grain should not be sold for a heap of grain, or for a heap of grain of known measure (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Messenger of Allah forbade Mukhabarah, Muzabanah and Muhaqalah, and selling dates before they arte fit or eating, and selling them for anything except Dinars and Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'umar that:the Messenger of Allah forbade selling dates in the trees before they ripen or selling ears of corn before the grains become visible and there is no fear of blight. He forbade that to the seller ad the buyer (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Sa' eed said:"We used to sell two Sa s of mixed dates for a Sa but the Prophet said (Do not sell) two Sa s dates for a Sa or two Sa s wheat or a Sa or two Dirhams for a Dirham (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Saeed said:"Bilal brought some Bami dates to the Messenger of Allah and he said: 'What is this? 'He said: 'I bought a Sa of them for two Sas. The Messenger of Allah said: "O! The essence of Riba, do not approach it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Dates for dates, wheat for wheat, barley for barley, salt for salt, exchanged hand to hand. Whoever gives more or takes more has engaged in Riba unless they are of different types (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Dinar for Dinar Dirham for Dirham, no difference between them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Mujahid said:"Umar said: Dinar for Dinar, Dirham for Dirham, no difference between them, this is the obligation that our Prophet enjoined upon us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Gold for gold, weight for weight, like for like; and silver for silver, weight for weight, like for like. Whoever gives more or takes more has engaged in Riba (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Saeed Al-Khudri that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not sell gold for gold except like for like and do not differentiate. Do not sell silver for silver except like for like, and do not sell it in return for something to be paid later (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ata' bin Yasir that:Muawiyah sold a cup of gold or silver for more than its weight. Abu Ad-Darda' said: "I heard the Messenger of Allah forbid such transactions unless it was like for like (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Fadalah bin 'Ubad said:"On the Day of Khaibar I got a necklace containing gold and gems, and I wanted to sell it. Mention of that was made to the Prophet and he said: 'Take it apart, and then sell it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakrah narrated that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade selling silver for silver and gold for gold, unless it was of equal amounts. And he told us to sell gold for silver however we wanted, and silver for gold however we wanted (from eng-nasai.txt)
Usmah bin Zaid Narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"There is no Riba except in credit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"I used to sell gold for silver, or silver for gold. I came to the Messenger of Allah and told him about that, and he said: 'If you make a deal with your companion, d o not leave him when there is still any ambiguity (in the deal) between you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Saeed bin Jubair that:he did not like to exchange Dinars for Dirhams or Dirhams for Dinars (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Saeed bin Jubair, from Ibn 'Umar, that:he did not see anything wrong with parying Dirhams for Dinars (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibrahim, with regard to exchanging Dirnars for Dirhams, that:he disliked it (this transaction) if it was done on credit. (Da 'if) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Saeed bin Jubair that:he did not see anything wrong with it even if it was on credit (from eng-nasai.txt)
Something similar was narrated form Saeed bin Jubair. Abu 'Abdur-Rehman (An-Nasai) said:This is what I have found on this topic (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) came to Al-Madinah, he called for a scale and weighed (something) for me and gave me more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:'The Messenger of Allah paid off what he owed me, and gave me more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Simak bin Harb said:"I heard Abu Safwan say: 'I bought a pair of trousers from the Messenger of Allah before the Hijrah, and he weighed it for me and allowed me (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever buys food, let him not sell it until he has taken possession of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever buys food let him not sell it until he has taken possession of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever buys food, let him not sell it until he has checked its weight (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I heard the Prophet say" something similar to the preceding two reports "until he takes possession of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Tawus said:"I heard Ibn 'Abbas say: 'As for that which the Messenger of Allah forbade, (it is) selling before taking possession of food (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever buys food let him not sell it until he takes possession of it. Ibn 'Abbas said: "I think the same applies to everything else as to food (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hakim bin Hizam said:"The Messenger of Allah said: "Do not sell food until you have bought it and taken possession of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Jurayi said:"Ata' told me that from 'Abdullah bin 'Ismah Al-Jushami from Hakim bin Hizam from the prophet (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hakim bin Hizam said:"I bought some food and made food and made a profit on it (by selling it) before I took possession of it. I came to the Messenger of Allah and told him about that and he said: 'Do not sell it until you take possession of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Prophet forbade anyone to sell food that he brought (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"During the time the Messenger of Allah we used to buy food, and he sent someone to tell us to remove it from the place where we had bought it, to another place, b before selling (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:they used to buy and sell during the time of the Messenger of Allah at the top of the marketplace without measuring. The Messenger of Allah forbade them to sell it in the place where they had bought it until they moved it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi that Ibn 'UMar told them, that:they used to buy foold from the riders at the time of the Messenger of Allah and he forbade them to sell it in the place where they had bought it until they moved it to the food market (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim that his father said:"I saw people being beaten (in punishment) at the time of the Messenger of Allah for buying food unmeasured and selling it before bringing it to their own camp (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah bought some food from a Jew with payment to be made later, and he put his shield in pledge for that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that he brought some barley bread and rancid oil to the Messenger of Allah. He said:"He put his armor in pledge for that with a Jew in Al-Madinah, and he took some barley from him for his family (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father that his grandfather, Said:that the Messenger of Allah said: "It is not permissible to lend on the condition of a sale, or to have two conditions in one transaction, or to sell what you do not have." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'No man is bound by a transaction involving the sale of something that he does not possess (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hakim bin Hizam said:"I asked the Prophet "O Messenger of Allah, a man may come to me and ask me to sell him something that I do not have. Can I sell it to him then go and buy it from the market?' He said: 'Do not sell what you do not have (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sasmurah that:the Messenger of Allah forbade selling animals in exchange for animal's ion credit (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Propher said:"Paying in advance for the offspring of the offspring of a pregnant animal (Habal al-Habalah) is Riba (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Prophet forbade selling the offspring of the offspring of a pregnant animal (Habal Al-Habalah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Prophet forbade selling the offspring of the offspring of a pregnant animal (Habal Al-Habalah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade selling the produce several years in advance (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Messenger of Allah forbade selling the produce several years in advance (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that:the Messenger of Allah prohibited lending on the condition of a sale, or to have two conditions in one transaction, or to profit from what you do not posses (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade lending on the condition of a sale, selling what you do not have, and profiting on what you do not possess (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade two transactions in one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet forbade Muhaqalah, Muzahanah, Mukhabarah and selling with an exception unless it is defined (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade Muhaqalah, Muzahanah, Mukhabarah, Mu'awamah, and selling with an exception unless it is defined but he gave concession allowing 'Araya (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that the Prophet said:"Any man who pollinates a date-palm tree then sells it, the fruits of the tree are for the one who pollinated it, unless the purchaser stipulated otherwise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade selling something from the spoils of war prior to its distribution, having intercourse with a pregnant woman until she gives birth, and (eating) the flesh of any predator that has fangs (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'If the two parties to a transaction disagree, and neither of them has any proof, then it is as the owner of the goods says, or they may cancel it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah bought some food from a Jew on credit, and he gave him a shield of his as a pledge (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah died when his shield was in pledge with a Jew for thirty Sa's of barley for his family (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Prophet sold a Mudabbar (from eng-nasai.txt)
it was narrated from 'Abdullah that:the Messenger of Allah forbade selling loyalty or giving it away (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah forbade selling loyalty or giving it away. (Shah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade selling loyalty or giving it away." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:the Messenger of Allah forbade selling water (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Al-Minhal said:"I heard Iyas bin 'Umar" - and on one occasion he said: "Ibn 'Abd - say: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah forbid the sale of water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Iyas that:the Messenger of Allah forbade selling surplus water. The keeper of al-Wahat sold the surplus water of al-Wahat, and 'Abdullah bin 'Arm disapproved of that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Iya bin 'Abd, the companion of the Prophet said:"do not sell surplus water, for the Prophet forbade the sale of surplus water (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"When the Verses of Riba were revealed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood up on the Minbar and recited them to the people, then he forbade dealing in wine (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Mas'us 'Uqbah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade the price of a dog, the gift of a female fornicator, and the fee of a fortuneteller (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah said - among the things that be forbade - 'And the price of a dog (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir bin 'Adbullah that:the Messenger of Allah forbade the price of dogs and cats, except hunting dogs. (Da'if) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasa'i) said: This is Munkar (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade charging stud fees for a camel, the sale of water, the renting of land for cultivation. Selling one's land and water, this is what the Prophet forbade (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade charging stud fees for a stallion (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"A man from Banu As-Sa'q, one of Banu Kilab, came to the Messenger of Allah and asked him about charging stud fees for a stallion. He forbade him to do that, but he said: 'We give payment for that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade the earnings of a cupper, the price of a dog and stud fees for a stallion (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that (Abu Hurairah) said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade the price of a dog and stud fees for a stallion (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that (Abu Hurairah) said:"The Messenger of Allah forbade the price of a dog and stud fees for a stallion (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"If a person becomes bankrupt, then a man finds the goods that he sold to him with him, he has more right to them than anyone else (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah from the Prophet, that:if a man becomes bankrupt, then a specific item is found with him, and is recognized, then it belongs to the one who sold it to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sammurah that the Messenger of Allah said:"A man has more right to his own wealth when he finds it, and the buyer should pursue the one who sold it to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sammurah that the Messenger of Allah said:"If a woman is married off by two guardians, then the first marriage is the one that counts, and if a man sells something to two men, it belongs to the first one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If one of you is referred to a rich man (to help repay a debt), he should accept that referral, and (wrongdoing) is when a rich man takes a long time to repay a debt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Ash-Sharid, that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'if one who can afford it delay repayment, his honor and punishment become permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Ash-Shrid, from his father that the Messenger of Allah said:"If one who can afford it delays repayment, his honor and punishment become permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Wrongdoing is when a rich man takes a long time to repay a debt, and if one of you is referred to a rich man (to help repay debt), he should accept that referral (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The best of you is the one who is best in repaying (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The prophet said: "A man used to lend to people, but if he realized that someone was going through hardship, he would say to his slave: 'Let him off, perhaps Allah, the Most High, will let us off.' And when he met Allah, He let him off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Uthman bin 'Affan said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, admitted to paradise a man who was easygoing in buying and selling, in paying off debts and asking for repayment."' (Sahaih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narratd that 'Abdullah said:"Sa'd, 'Ammar and I entered into a partnership on the Day of Badr, (agreeing to share) whatever was allotted to us. 'Ammar and I did not get anything. But sa'd got two prisoners (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever sets free his share of a slave should set him free completely from his own wealth, if he has enough wealth to cover the price of the slave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever sets free his share of a slave, and he has sufficient wealth to set him free completely by paying the price of the slave, then he should set him free with his own wealth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Prophet said:"Any one of you who has land, or date palm trees, he should not sell them until he offers them to his partner first (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Rafi said:"The Messenger of Allah said" "The neighbor has more right to property that is near (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr Bin Ash-Sharid, from his father, that a man said:"O Messenger of Allah, not one else has any share in my land, but there are neighbors." He said: "The neighbor has more right to property that is near (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Salamah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Pre-emption takes effect in all cases where land has not been divided. But if the boundaries have been sent, and the roads lay out, then there is no pre-emption (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah decreed the principle of pre-emption, and the (rights of) neighbors (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Salamah and Sulaiman bin Yasar narrated from one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah, one of the Ansar, that:the Messenger or Allah approved of Qasamah as it had been during the Jahiliyyah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Al-Musayyab said:"Qasamah existed during the Jahiliyyah, then the Messenger of Allah confirmed it in the case of an Ansari who was found slain in the dry well of the jews, and Ansar said: "The Jews kill our companion (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that the Messenger of Allah said:"It is not permissible to shed the blood of a Muslim except in one of three cases: A soul for a soul, a adulterer who has been married, and one who separates leaving his religion (from eng-nasai.txt)
A similar report was narrated from 'Alqamah bin Wa'il from his father, from the Prophet. Yahya (one of the narrators) said:"He is better than him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Simak bin Harb that 'Alqamah bin Wa'il told him that his father said:"I was sitting with the Messenger of Allah when a man came leading another" (and he narrated) a similar report (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever kills his slave, we will kill him: whoever mutilates (his slave). We will mutilate him, and whoever castrates (his slave), we will castrate him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Prophet said:"Whoever kills his slave, we will kill him, and whoever mutilates his slave, we will mutilate him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah said:"The Prophet said: 'Whoever kills his slave, we will kill him, and whoever mutilates his slave, we will mutilate him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:a Jew killed a young girl for her jewelry, so the Messenger of Allah killed him in retaliation for her (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Bakrah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever kills a Mu'ahad with no justification, Allah will forbid Paradise to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakrah said:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever kills a Mu'ahad with no justification, Allah will forbid Paradise to him and he will not even smell its fragrance (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever kills a person from among Ahl Adh-Dhimmah, he will not smell the fragrance of Paradise, and its fragrance may be detected from a distance of forty years (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Hussain that:a slave belonging to some poor people cut off the ear of a slave belonging to some rich people. They came to the Prophet but he did not give them anything (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:the Messenger of Allah ruled that Qisas should be given for a tooth. The Messenger of Allah said: "The Messenger of Allah said: "What Allah has decreed is retaliation (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever kills his slave, we will kill him, and whoever mutilates his slave, we will mutilate him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that the Prophet of Allah said:"Whoever castrates his slave, we will castrate him, and whoever mutilates his slave, we will mutilate him." This is the wording of Ibn Bashshar (one of the narrators) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that a man bit another man on the forearm:he pulled it away and a front tooth fell out. The matter was referred to the Messenger of Allah and he canceled (the Diyah) and said: "Did you want to bite your brother's flesh as a stallion bites? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that:Ya'la said, concerning the one who bit (another), and his front tooth fell out, that the Prophet said: "There is no Diyah for you." (Sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Imran bin Husain that:a man bit another man in the forearm, and his front tooth fell out, so he went to the Prophet and told him about that. He said: "Do you want to bite your brother's forearm as a stallion bites?" And he judged it to be invalid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Safwan bin Ya'la, from his father, that:a man bit the hand of another man and his front tooth fell out. He came to the Prophet but he considered it in vain (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ya'la that:he hired a worker who fought with a man and bit his hand, and his from tooth fell out. So he referred the dispute to the Prophet who said: "Do you want to bite his hand as a stallion bites? (from eng-nasai.txt)
A similar report to that of the one who bit (another man) and his from tooth fell out was narrated from Ibn Ya'la from his father, in which the Prophet said:"There is no Diyah for you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Firas that "Umar said:"I saw the Messenger of Allah allowing others to seek retaliation against him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"A case requiring Qisas was brought to the Messenger of Allah and he enjoined them to pardon (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"No case requiring Qisas was ever brought to the Messenger of Allah but he would enjoin pardoning (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If a person's relative is killed, he has the choice of two things: Either he may retaliate, or he may take the ransom (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'If a person's relative is killed, he has the choice of two things: Either he may retaliate, or he may take the ransom (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Salamah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"If a person's relative is killed." In Mursal form. (Shah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"And it is upon those (relatives) of the killed one to block (any punishment) the first (in line) then the first, even if that one is a woman (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Qasim bin Rabi'ah, from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr, the Prophet said:"The accidental killing, which seems intentional, with a whip or stick, (the Diyah) is one hundred camels, of which forty should be (she-camels) which their young in their wombs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Qasim bin Rabi'ah that:the Messenger of Allah delivered a speech on the Day of the Conquest. (And he mentioned it) in Mursal from (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin 'Amr that the prophet said:"Indeed the accidental killing, which seems intentional, with a whip or a stick, (the Diyah) is one hundred camels, of which forty should be (she-camels) with their young in their wombs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Aws, that the Mssenger of Allah said:"Indeed the accidental killing, the killing with a whip or stick, for it (the Diyah) is one hundred camels - a severe penalty - of which forty should be (she-camels) with their young in their wombs (from eng-nasai.txt)
In Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah ruled that the Diyah for accidental killing is twenty Bint Makhad, twenty Bin Makhad, twenty Bint Labur, twenty Jadh'ah, and twenty Hiqqah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:the Prophet ruled that twelve thousand (should be given) as Diyah. (Hahan) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The blood money of a woman (in the event of injury) is like the blood money of a man, up to one-third of the Diyah (for her life) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr Bin Shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The blood money for Ahl Adh-Dhimmah is half that of the blood money for the Muslims, and they are the Jews and Christians (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr, that the Messenger of Allah said:"The blood money for a disbeliever is half the blood money for the believer." (Hassan) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah ruled that the Diyah for a Mukatab who is killed should be (equivalent) to the Diyah for a free mand, proportionate to the amount be had paid off (toward buying his freedom) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:the Prophet of Allah ruled that the Diyah for a Mukatab should be (equivalent) to the Diyah for a free man, proportionate to the amount he had paid off (toward buying his freedom) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah ruled that in the case of a Mukatab, the Diyah should be (equivalent) to the Diyah for a free man, proportionate to the amount he had paid off (towards buying his freedom)." (Dar'if) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:a Mukatab was killed at the time of the Messenger of Allah and he commanded that the Diyah be paid (equivalent) to the Diyah for a free man, (proportionate to the amount he had paid off towards buying his freedom) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buraidah, from his father, that:a woman threw some pebbles and stuck another woman, and she miscarried. The Messenger of Allah stipulated (a Diyah of ) fifty sheep for her child. And on that day, he forbade throwing pebbles (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal that he saw a man throwing pebbles and he said:"Do not throw pebbles, for the Prophet of Allah forbade throwing pebbles," or "he disliked the throwing of pebbles." Kahmas (one of the narrators) was not sure (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hamal bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah ruled that a slave (should be given as Diyah) for a fetus." Tawus said: "A horse would do in place of a slave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:there were two women of Hudhail during the time of the Messenger of Allah, one of whom threw something at the other and caused her to miscarry. The Messenger of Allah ruled that (Diyah of ) a male or female slave be paid for that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from'Amrbin shu'aib, from his father that his grandfather said:"the Messenger of Allah said: 'Whoever practices medicine when he is not known for that, he is liable.(Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrator mentioned in hadith:A similar report was narrated from 'Amr bin shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Rimthah said; "I came to the Prophet with my father and he said:'Who is this with you?' He said:' my son, I bear witness (that he is my son). He said: 'You cannot be affected by his sin or he by yours (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father that his grandfather said; the Messenger of Allah said:"For teeth (the Diyah is) five camels (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin shu'aib, from his father, that his grandfather said:The Messenger of Allah said: "For teeth (the Diyah is ) the same, five camels for each (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated fromabu MUsa that the Prophet said:"For fingers (the Diyah is ) ten (camels) each (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-Asha'ari that the Prophet of Allah said:"Fingers are the same, (the Diyah is) ten (camel) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"The Messenger of Allah ruled that the fingers are the same and (the Diyah is ) ten camels for each (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin al-Musayyab that:when the letter was found that was with the family of 'Amr bin Hazm, which they said the Messenger of Allah had written to them, they found in it, with regard to fingers, that the Diyahwas ten (Camels) for each (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that the Propher said:"this and this are the same,": meaning the little finger and the thumb (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas:"This and this are the same: The little finger and the thumb (sahih) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'abbas said:"The (Diyah for) fingers are ten each (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"When the Messenger of Allah conquered Makkah, he said in his Khutbah: "(The Diyah) for fingers is ten each (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said in his khutbah, while he was leaning with his back against the Ka'bah:"The fingers are the same (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib that his father told him that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) conquered Makkah , he said in his Khutbah: 'For any wound that exposes the bone, the diyah is five (camels) each (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"Whoever looks into a house without the permission of the occupants and they put out his eye, he has no right to blood money or retaliation (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"If a person were to look at you without permission and you were to throw a stone at him and put out his eye, there would be no blame on you (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Jubair said:"Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Laila told me to ask Ibn 'Abbas about two Verses: 'And whoever kills a believe (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubaidullah bin abi Bakr said:"I heard Ana's say: 'The Messenger of Allah said: 'the major sins are; associating others with Allah (shirk), disobeying one's parents, killing a soul (murder) and speaking falsely (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that the Prophet said:"The major sins are: associating others with Allah, disobeying parents, killing a souls (murder) and swearing a false oath knowingly (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah, may Allah be pleased with him, said:"The Messenger of Allah said; 'Allah curses the thief who steals an egg and had his hand cut off, and who steals a rope and has his hand cut off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Bahz bin Hakim, from his father, from his grandfather, that:the Messenger of Allah detained some people who were under suspicion (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Bahz bin Hakim, from his father, from his grandfather, that:the Messenger of Allah detained a man who was under suspicion, and then he let him go. (Hssan) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ata' bin Abi Rabah narrated that:a man stole a garment, and was brought before the Messenger of Allah, who order that his hand be cut off. The man said: "O Messenger of Allah, he can keep it." He said: "Why (did you not say that) before now? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated form 'Amr bin Shu'ainb, from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet said:"Pardon matters that may deserve a Hadd punishment before you bring it to my attention, for whatever is brought to my attention, the Hadd punishment becomes binding." (Saif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib from his father, from' Abdullah bin 'Amr that the Messenger of Allah said:"Pardon matters among yourselves that may deserve a Hadd punishment, for whatever is brought to my attention, the Hadd punishment b becomes binding." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar, may Allah be pleased with them both, that a Makhzumi woman used to borrow things then deny that she had borrowed them, so the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that her hand be cut off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar, may Allah be pleased with them said:"There was a Makhzumi woman who used to borrow things, saying that her neighbors needed the, then she would deny that she had borrowed the, so the Messenger of Allah ordered that her hand be cut off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Saeed bin AL-Musayyab that:a woman from Banu Makhzum borrowed some jewelry, asking on behalf of others, then she denied (having done) that, and the Prophet ordered that her hand be cut off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Dawud bin Abi Asim that:Saeed bin Al-Musayyb narrated something similar to that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"A thief was brought to the hand." They said: "We did not think that you would take it so far." He said: "If it were Fatimah (who stole), I would cut off her hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'A Hadd punishment that is carried out on earth is better for the people of earth than if it were to rain for thirty mornings."' (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Zurah said:"Abu Hurairah said: 'Carrying out a Hadd punishment in a land is better for its people than if it were to rain for forty nights." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"The Messenger of Allah cut off (a thief's hand) for a shield which was worth five Durham's." This is how he (the narrator) said it. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah cut off (a thief's hand) for a shield which was worth three Dirham." (Sahih) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasai) said: This is correct (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah cut off (a thief's hand) for a shield which cost three Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Umar narrated that:the Prophet cut off the hand of a thief, who stole a shield, from a portico allocated to women, the price of which was three Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:the Messenger of Allah cut off (a thief's hand) for a shield that was worth three Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:the Messenger of Allah cut off (a thief's hand) for a shield. (Sahih) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasai) said: This is a mistake (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"Abu Bakr, may Allah be pleased with him, cut off (a thief's hand) for a shield that was worth five Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah said:"I heard Anas say: 'A man stole a shield during the time of Abu Bakr, the value of which was five Dirhams, and he cut off his hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah, may Allah be pleased with her, that:the Messenger of Allah cut off (a thief's hand) for one quarter of a Dinar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"(The thief's hand) is not to be cut off except for the price of a shield, one-third of a Dinar or half of Dinar, or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Az-Zuhri said:"Amrah said, narrating from 'Aishah, may Allah be pleased with her, that the Messenger of Allah cut off the hand of a thief for a quarter of a Dinar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The hand of the thief is to be cut off for a quarter of a Dinar, or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Prophet said:"The hand of the thief is to be cut off for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The hand of the thief is to be cut off for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah said:"The hand of the thief is to be cut off for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that the Messenger of Allah" (one of the narrators) Qutaibah said:'Used to cut off the hand of the thief for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah, from the Prophet:"The hand of the thief is to be cut off for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah, from the Prophet:"The hand of the thief is to be cut off for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amrah that she heard 'Aishah say:"The hand of the thief is to be cut off for one-quarter of a Dinar or more." (Sahih) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasai) said: This is the correct version of the narration of Yahya (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amrah that she heard 'Aishah say:"The hand of the thief is to be cut off for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amrah that 'Aishah said:"Cutting off (the hand of the thief) is for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"It has not been too long and I have not forgotten yet. Cutting off (the hand of the thief) is for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:she heard the Messenger of Allah say: "The hand of the thief is not be cut off except for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrator mentioned in hadith:A similar report was narrated from 'Aishah from the Messenger of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amrah said:"Aishah said: 'Cutting off (the hand of the thief) is for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The hand of the thief is to be cut off for the price of a shield, and the price of a shield is one-quarter of a Dinar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah used to cut off the (thief's) hand for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The hand (of the thief) is not to be cut off except for one-quarter of a Dinar (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aishah, the mother of the believers, narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"The hand (of the thief) is not to be cut off for a shield (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aishah said:The Messenger of Allah said: 'The hand of the thief is not to be cut off for anything less than a shield."' It was said to 'Aishah: 'What is the price of a shield?" She said: "One-quarter of a Dinar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that she heard the Messenger of Allah say:"The hand of a thief is not to be cut off except for one-quarter of a Dinar or more (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that sulaiman bin Yasar said:"Five (fingers i.e., the hand) should not be cut off except for five." Hammam said: "I met 'Abdullah Ad-Danaj and he narrated to me that Sulaiman bin Yasar said: "Five should not be cut off except for five." (Sahih Maqtu) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The hand of the thief should not be cut off for anything less than a Hajafah or a Turs (two kinds of shields)," each of which was worth a (decent) price (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:the Prophet cut off (the thief's hand) for (something) that was worth five Dirhams. (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ayman said:"The Prophet did not cut off the (hand of) the thief except for the value of a shield, and the value of a shield in those days was a Dinar." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ayman said:"The hand of a thief would not be cut off during the time of the Messenger of Allah except for the value of a shield, which in those days was a Dinar." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ayman said:"The hand of a thief was not be cut off during the time of the Messenger of Allah except for the value of a shield, and the value of a shield in those days was a Dinar." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ayman said:"The hand of a thief was not be cut off during the time of the Messenger of Allah except for the price of a shield, which in those days was a Dinar." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ayman said:"The (hand of) a thief is to be cut off for the price of a shield, and the price of a shield during the time of the Messenger of Allah was a Dinar, or ten Dirhams." (Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ayman bin Umm Ayman who attributed it to the Prophet said:"The (hand of) a thief is not to be cut off except for the price of a shield, and in those days the price of a shield was a Dinar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ayman said:"The (hand of) a thief is not to be cut off for less than the price of a shield." (Daif Mawquf) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ata, bin Abi Rabah narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas used to say:"Its price in those days was ten Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:A similar report was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas. The price of a shield at the time of the Messenger of Allah was estimated to be ten Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Ayyub bin Musa:(A similar report) was narrated from Ayyub bin Musa, from 'Ata, in Mursal form (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shuaib, from his father, that his grandfather said:"The price of a shield at the time of the Messenger of Allah was ten Dirhams (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Rafi bin Khadij said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah say: 'The hand is not to be cut off for (stealing) produce or the spadix of palm trees (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sufyan, from Abu Az-Zubair, from Jabir that:the Messenger of Allah robber and pilferer is not to be cut off." (Sahih) Sufyan did not hear it from Abu Az-Zubair (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sufyan, from Abu Az-Zubair, that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The pilferer is not to be cut off."' (Sahih) Ibn Juraij also did not hear it from Abu Az-Zubair. Ibn Juraij also did not hear it from Abu Az-Zubair (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah said:"The hand of the pilferer is not to be cut off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah said: 'The hand of the pilferer, robber and traitor is not to be cut off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The hand of the traitor is not to be cut off." (Sahih) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasai) said: Ashath bin Sawwar (one of its narrators) is weak (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Junadah bin Abi Umayyah said:"I heard Busr bin Abi Artah say: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah say: Hand should not be cut off while traveling (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet said:"If a slave steals, then sell him, even for half price." (Hasan) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasai) said: 'Umar bin Abi Salamah is not strong in Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Atiyyah said:'I was among the prisoners of Quraizah; we were examined, and whoever had grown (pubic) hair was killed, and whoever had not grown hair, he was allowed to live and was not killed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Muhairiz said; "I asked Fadalah bin 'Ubaid about hanging the hand (of the thief) from his neck, and he said:'It is Sunnah. The Messenger of Allah cut off a thief's hand then hung it from his neck."'(Daif) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf that the Messenger of Allah said:"The thief is not to be penalized (financially) if the Hadd punishment is carried out on him." (Daif) Abu 'Abdur-Rahman (An-Nasai) said: This is Mursal and it is not confirmed (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] was asked: "Which deed is best?" "He said: Faith in Allah [SWT] and His messenger [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abdullah bin Hubshi Al-Khath'ami that:The Prophet [SAW] was asked: "Which deed is best?" He said: "Faith in which there is no doubt, Jihad in which there is no Ghulul, and Hajjatun Mabrur (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Bishr bin Suhaim that:The Prophet [SAW] commanded him to call out on the days of At-Tashriq that no one would enter Paradise except a believer, and that these were the days of eating and drinking (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "The Muslim is the one from whose tongue and hand the people are safe, and the believer is the one from whom the people's lives and wealth are safe (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin 'Amr said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: "The Muslim is the one from whose tongue and hand the Muslims are safe, and the Muhajir is the one who forsakes (Hajara) that which Allah has forbidden to him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever prays as we pray, turns to face the same Qiblah as us and eats our slaughtered animals, that is a Muslim (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, whose Islam is most virtuous?' He said: 'The one from whose tongue and hand the Muslims are safe (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that:A man asked the Messenger of Allah [SAW]: "What quality of Islam is best?" He said: "To feed (the poor) and to say the Salam to whomever one knows and whomever one does not know (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Faith has seventy odd branches and modesty (Al-Haya') is a branch of faith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Modesty (Al-Haya') is a branch of Faith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shurahbil,:That one of the Companions of the Prophet [SAW] said: "The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Ammar's heart overflows with Faith (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Sa'eed said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'Whoever among you sees an evil, let him change it with his hand; if he cannot, then with his tongue; if he cannot, then with his heart- and that is the weakest of Faith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Qatadah that:He heard Anas say: "The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'None of you has believed until I am dearer to him than his son, his father and all the people (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'None of you has believed until I am dearer to him than his family, his wealth and all the people (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "By the One in Whose hand is my soul, none of you has believed until I am dearer to him than his son or his father (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Qatadah said:"I heard Anas say: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said (Humaid bin Mas'dah said in his Hadith: 'The Prophet of Allah [SAW] said): None of you has believed until he loves for his brother what he loves for himself (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "By the One in Whose hand is the soul of Muhammad, none of you has believed until he loves for his brother what he loves for himself of goodness (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zirr said:'Ali said: "The Unlettered Prophet [SAW] made a covenant with me, that none but a believer would love me, and none but a hypocrite would hate me (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Love for Ansar is a sign of Faith, and hatred for Ansar is a sign of hypocrisy (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "The signs of the hypocrite are three: When he speaks, he lies; when he makes a promise he breaks it; and when he is entrusted with something, he betrays (that trust) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Prophet [SAW] made a covenant with me that none would love me but a believer, and none would hate me but a hypocrite (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Whoever stands (in he voluntary night prayer of) the Ramadan out of faith and in the hope of reward, his previous sins will be forgiven (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Prophet [SAW] said: "Whoever stands (in the voluntary night prayer of) Ramadan out of faith and in hope of reward, his previous sins will be forgiven (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Whoever stands (in the voluntary night prayer of) Ramadan out of faith and in the hope of reward, his previous sins will be forgiven (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father, that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] passed by a man who was censuring his brother about modesty. He said: "Let him be, for modesty is part of faith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Soon the best wealth of a Muslim will be the sheep which follows in the mountain peaks and places where rainfall is to be found, fleeing with his religion from the tribulations (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "The parable of the hypocrite is that of a sheep that hesitates between two flocks, sometimes following one, and sometimes following another, not knowing which to follow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "None of you has believed until he loves for his brother what he loves for himself (from eng-nasai.txt)
Al-Mu'tamir narrated that his father said:"I heard Talq mentioning ten things that have to do with the Fitrah: Using the Siwak, trimming the mustache, clipping the nails, washing the joints, shaving the pubes, rinsing the nose, and I am not sure about rinsing the mouth (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Talq bin Habib said:"Ten things are from the Sunnah: Using the Siwak, trimming the mustache, rinsing the mouth, rinsing the nose, letting the beard grow, trimming the nails, plucking the armpit hairs, circumcision, shaving the pubes and washing one's backside (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Five things are of the Fitrah: Circumcision, shaving the pubes, plucking the armpit hair, clipping the nails and trimming the mustache (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"Five things are of the Fitrah: Clipping the nails, trimming the mustache, plucking the armpit hairs, shaving the pubes, and circumcision." (Sahih Mawquf) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar:That the Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Trim the mustache and let the beard grow (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Let the beard grow and trim the mustache (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zaid bin Al-Arqam said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'Whoever does not take from his mustache, he is not one of us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :The Prophet [SAW] saw a boy, part of whose head had been shaven and part had been left. He forbade that and said: "Shave all of it, or leave all of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade women to shave their heads (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that :The Prophet [SAW] said: "Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, has forbidden me from Al-Qaza' (to shave part of the head and leave part) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Al-Qaza' (to shave part of the head and leave part) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Wa'il bin Hujr said:"I came to the Prophet [SAW] and I had hair. He said: 'This is bad,' and I thought he meant me, so I cut my hair then I came to him. He said to me: 'I didn't mean you, but this is better (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The hair of the Prophet [SAW] was wavy, neither curly nor straight, and (hung down) between his ears and his shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Humaid bin 'Abdur-Rahman Al-Himyari said:"I met a man who accompanied the Prophet [SAW] as Abu Hurairah accompanied him for four years, who said: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade us from combing our hair everyday (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade combing one's hair, except every other day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Hasan that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade coming one's hair except every other day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Hasan and Muhammad said:"Combing one's hair (should be done) every other day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to like to start in the right. He would accept with his right hand and give with his right hand, and he liked to start on the right in all his affairs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' said:"I have never seen anyone who looked more handsome in a red Hullah than the Messenger of Allah [SAW], with his long hair that came down to his shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The hair of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] came halfway down his ears (from eng-nasai.txt)
Al-Bara' said:"I have never seen any man more handsome in a red Hullah than the Messenger of Allah [SAW]." He said: "And I saw his long hair, coming almost to his shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud said:"According to whose recitation do you want me to recite? Because I recited seventy-odd Surahs to the Messenger of Allah [SAW] when Zaid had two braids, and was playing with the other boys (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ziyad bin Al-Husain narrated that his father said:"When he came to the Prophet [SAW] in Al-Madinah, the Messenger of Allah [SAW] said to him: 'Come closer to me.' So he came closer to him, and he put his hand on his braid and wiped his head and prayed for him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Wa'il bin Hujr said:"I came to the Prophet [SAW] and I had long hair. He said: 'It is not good,' and I thought he meant me, so I went and cut my hair. He said: 'I did not mean you, but this is better (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amr bin Shu'aib, from his father, from his grandfather, that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade plucking gray hairs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "The Jews and Christians do not dye their hair, so be different from them (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Abu Hurairah:A similar report was narrated from Abu Hurairah, from the Messenger of Allah [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The Jews and the Christians do not dye their hair, so be different from them and dye your hair (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "The Jews and Christians do not dye their hair, so be different from them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Change gray hair, but do not imitate the Jews (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Az-Zubair said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Change gray hair but do not imitate the Jews (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas, who attributed it to the Prophet [SAW], said:"Some people will dye their hair black like the breasts of pigeons at the end of time, but they will not even smell the fragrance of Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"Abu Quhafah was brought on the Day of the Conquest of Makkah, and his hair and beard were white like the Thaghamah. The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Change this with something, but avoid black (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Dharr that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "The best things with which you can change gray hair are Henna and Katam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The best things with which you can change gray hair are Henna and Katam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"I heard the Prophet [SAW] say: 'Some of the best things with which you can change gray hair are Henna and Katam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The best things with which you can change gray hair are Henna and Katam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Buraidah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The best things with which you can change gray hair are Henna and Katam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buraidah that:He heard that the Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "The best things with which you can change gray hair are Henna and Katam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Rimthah said:"My father and I came to the Prophet [SAW] and he had dyed his beard with Henna (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Rimthah said:"I came to the Prophet [SAW] and I saw that he had dyed his beard with yellow dye (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Qatadah :That he asked Anas: "Did the Messenger of Allah [SAW] dye his hair? He said: "His gray hair didn't go far, it was only a little at his temples (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] did not dye his hair; his gray hair were only a little beneath his lower lip and at his temples, and a little on his head (from eng-nasai.txt)
Karimah said:"I heard a woman asking 'Aishah about dyeing the hair with Henna. She said: 'There is nothing wrong with it, but I do not like to do it because my beloved- meaning the Prophet [SAW]- disliked its smell (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab that Mu'awiyah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade giving a false impression (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Hisham bin 'Urwah, from his wife Fatimah, from Asma' bint Abi Bakr, that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed the woman who affixes hair extensions and the woman who has that done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed the woman who affixes hair extensions and the woman who has that done, the woman who does tattoos and the woman who has that done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi' that he heard that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed the woman who affixes hair extensions and the woman who has that done, the woman who does tattoos and the woman who has that done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Safiyyah bint Shaibah, that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'May Allah curse the woman who affixes hair extensions and the woman who has that done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed the women who do tattoos and the women who have them done, Al-Mutanammisat, and the women who have their teeth separated for the sake of beauty, those who change (the creation of Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibrahim said:"Abdullah said: 'The women who have their teeth separated..." and he quoted the Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Mas'ud said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursing Al-Mutanammisat, women who have their teeth separated, and women who have tattoos done, those who change the creation of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursing Al-Mutanammisat, women who have their teeth separated, and women who have tattoos done, those who change the creation of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'May Allah curse Al-Mutanammisat, women who have tattoos done and women who have their teeth separated, those who change the creation of Allah, Mighty and Sublime (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Raihanah said:"We heard that the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade filing (the teeth) and tattoos (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Raihanah said:"We heard that the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade filing (the teeth) and tattoos (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "One of the best kinds of kohl that you use is Ithmid (antimony); it brightens the vision and makes the hair (eye-lashes) grow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Simak said:"I heard Jabir bin Samurah being asked about the gray hairs of the Prophet [SAW]. He said: 'If he put oil on his head they could not be seen, but if he did not put oil on his head, they could be seen (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Zaid narrated from his father that:Ibn 'Umar used to dye his garments with saffron. He was asked about that and he said: "The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to dye his clothes (with it) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muhammad bin 'Ali said:"I asked 'Aishah: 'Did the Messenger of Allah [SAW] wear perfume?' She said: 'Yes, the perfumes used by men: Musk and amber (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The perfume for men is that whose scent is apparent while its color is hidden, and the perfume for women is that whose color is apparent, while its scent is hidden (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "The perfume for men is that whose scent is apparent while its color is hidden, and the perfume for women is that whose color is apparent, while its scent is hidden (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'A woman from among the Children of Israel took a ring of gold and filled it with musk.' The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'That is the best kind of perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ya'la bin Murrah that:He passed by the Prophet [SAW] wearing Khaluq. He said to him: "Do you have a wife?" I said: "No." He said: "Wash it off, then wash it off, then do not put it on again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ya'la bin Murrah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] saw a man wearing Khaluq and said: "Go and wash it off, then wash it off, and do not put it on again (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from Ibn 'Amr:A similar report was narrated from Ibn 'Amr, from a man, from Ya'la (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Ash'ari said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Any woman who puts on perfume then passes by people so that they can smell her fragrance then she is an adulteress (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If a woman goes out to the Masjid, let her perform Ghusl to remove perfume as she would perform Ghusl to remove Janabah (impurity following sexual activity).'" This is an abridged form of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If a woman has perfumed herself with incense, let her not attend 'Isha' prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zainab, the wife of 'Abdullah, said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If one of you wants to attend 'Isha' prayer, let her not touch perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zainab, the wife of 'Abdullah, said:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "If one of you wants to attend 'Isha' prayer, let her not touch perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zainab Ath-Thaqafiyyah that :The Prophet of Allah [SAW] said: "If any one of you goes out to the Masjid, let her not go near perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zainab Ath-Thaqafiyyah, the wife of 'Abdullah, that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] told her not to touch perfume if she wanted to go out to 'Isha' the later (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zainab Ath-Thaqafiyyah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "If a woman goes out to (pray) 'Isha', let her not touch perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zainab Ath-Thaqafiyyah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If one of you wants to attend the prayer, let her not touch perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Nafi' said:"When Ibn 'Umar burned incense he would burn Al-Uluwwah that was not mixed with anything else, or camphor mixed with some Al-Uluwwah. Then he said: 'This is what the Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to burn (from eng-nasai.txt)
Uqbah bin 'Amir narrated that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to tell his wives not to wear jewelry and silk. He said: "If you want the jewelry and silk of Paradise, then do not wear them in this world (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Thawban said:"The daughter of Hubairah came to the Messenger of Allah [SAW] and on her hand were large gold rings." - a similar report (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib said:"The Prophet of Allah [SAW] took hold of some silk in his right hand and some gold in his left, then he said: 'These two are forbidden for the males of my Ummah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib said:"The Prophet of Allah [SAW] took hold of some silk in his right hand, and some gold in his left, then he said: 'These two are forbidden for the males of my Ummah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"The Prophet of Allah [SAW] took hold of some silk in his right hand, and some gold in his left, then he said: 'These two are forbidden for the males of my Ummah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Zurair Al-Ghafiqi said:"I heard 'Ali say: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] took some gold in his right hand and some silk in his left hand and said: This is forbidden for the males of my Ummah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Gold and silk have been permitted for the females of my Ummah, and forbidden to the males (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'awiyah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade wearing silk and gold, unless it was broken (into smaller pieces) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'awiyah that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade wearing gold unless it was broken (into smaller pieces), and (he forbade) riding on Al-Mayathir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Shaikh that he heard Mu'awiyah say,:When a group of the Companions of Muhammad [SAW] were with him: "Do you know that the Prophet of Allah [SAW] forbade wearing gold unless it was broken (into smaller pieces)?" They said: "By Allah, yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
Himman said:"Mu'awiyah went on Hajj and he called a group of Ansar to the Ka'bah. He said: 'I adjure you by Allah, did you hear the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbid gold?' They said: 'Yes.' He said: 'And I bear witness to that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Himman said:Mu'awiyah went on Hajj and he called a group of Ansar to the Ka'bah. He said: 'I adjure you by Allah, did you hear the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbid gold?' They said: 'Yes.' He said: 'And I bear witness to that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Himman said:"Mu'awiyah went on Hajj and he called a group of Ansar to the Ka'bah. He said: 'Did you hear the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbid gold?' They said: 'Yes.' He said: 'And I bear witness to that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Himman said:"Mu'awiyah went on Hajj and he called a group of Ansar to the Ka'bah. He said: 'I adjure you by Allah, did you hear the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbid gold?' They said: 'Yes.' He said: 'And I bear witness to that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Shaikh said:"I heard Ibn 'Umar say: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade wearing gold unless it is broken (into smaller pieces) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Arafah bin As'ad that:His nose was cut off at the battle of Al-Kulab during the Jahiliyyah, so he wore a nose made of silver, but it began to rot, so the Prophet [SAW] told him to wear a nose made of gold (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab said:"Umar said to Suhaib: 'Why do I see you wearing a ring of gold?' He said: 'One who was better than you saw it and did not criticize it.' He said: 'Who was that?' He said: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"The Prophet [SAW] forbade me to wear gold rings and Al-Qassi, red Al-Miyathir, and (to drink) Al-Ji'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Prophet [SAW] forbade me to wear gold rings, and Al-Qassi, red Al-Miyathir (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade gold rings, red Al-Miyathir, Qassiyah garments and Al-Ji'ah, which is a drink made from barley and wheat." - And he mentioned its strength (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me (to wear) gold rings and Al-Qassi, Al-Mitharah, and Al-Ji'ah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'sa'ah bin Suwhan said:"I said to 'Ali: 'Forbid to us that which the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade to you.' He said: 'He forbade me from Ad-Dubba', Al-Hantam, gold circles (rings), wearing silk, and Al-Qassi, and red Al-Mitharah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sa'sa'ah bin Suwhan said to 'Ali:"O Commander of the Believers! Forbid us from that which the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade you from." He said: "He forbade us from Ad-Dubba, Al-Hantam, Al-Ji'ah, and from gold circles (rings), and from wearing silk, and from red Al-Mitharah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibrahim that his father told him that he heard 'Ali say:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me to recite Qur'an while bowing and to wear gold and garments dyed with safflower (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibrahim bin 'Abdullah bin Hunain that his father said:"I heard 'Ali say: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me- but I do not say that he forbade you- from wearing gold rings, Al-Qassi, and garments dyed with safflower, and reciting Qur'an while bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from rings of gold, garments dyed with safflower, and wearing Al-Qassi, and from reciting Qur'an while bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Hunain- the freed slave of Ibn 'Abbas- that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from wearing Al-Qassi, garments dyed with safflower, and gold rings (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Hunain, the freed slave of 'Ali, that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from four: Gold rings, wearing Al-Qassi, reciting Qur'an while I am bowing, and from wearing garments dyed with safflower (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Nafi', from a freed slave of Ibn 'Abbas, that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from wearing garments dyed with safflower, and from Al-Qassi, and from gold rings, and that I recite Qur'an while I am bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Hunain narrated that 'Ali said to him:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me (from wearing) garments dyed with safflower, and from gold rings, and from wearing Al-Qassi, and that I recite Qur'an while I am bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade (wearing) garments dyed with safflower, and Al-Qassiyah garments, and reciting Qur'an while he is bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade" and he quoted the same Hadith (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Prophet [SAW] forbade me from Al-Qassi, silk, gold rings, and that I recite Qur'an while bowing." Hisham contradicted him, he did not narrate it in Marfu' form (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abidah, from 'Ali, he said:"He forbade red Al-Mayathir, wearing Al-Qassi, and gold rings (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abidah said:"He forbade red Al-Mayathir, and gold rings (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me to wear gold rings (from eng-nasai.txt)
Hafs Al-Laithi said:"I bear witness that 'Imran narrated to us, he said: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade wearing silk, and gold rings, and drinking from Al-Hanatim (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that:A man came from Najran to the Messenger of Allah [SAW]. He was wearing a gold ring, and the Messenger of Allah [SAW] turned away from him, and said: "You have come to me with a coal of fire on your hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Tha'labah Al-Khushani that :The Prophet [SAW] saw a gold ring on his hand, and he started to smack him with a stick that he had in his hand. When the Prophet [SAW] looked away, he threw it away. He said: "I think that he hurt you or we made you lose money (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Idris Al-Khawlani narrated that:A man, among those who met the Prophet [SAW], wore a gold ring. A similar report (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Idris Al-Khawlani that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] saw a man wearing a gold ring. A similar report (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Idris that :The Prophet [SAW] saw a gold ring on a man's hand and he struck his finger with a stick that he had with him, until he threw it away (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibrahim bin Sa'd bin Shihab narrated that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW]...In Mursal form (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that :The Prophet [SAW] wore a ring of silver with an Ethiopian stone (Fass), on which was inscribed (the phrase): "Muhammad Rasul Allah (Muhammad the Messenger of Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] had a ring of silver which he wore on his right hand. It had an Ethiopian stone (Fass), and he used to wear the stone (Fass) next to his palm (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The ring of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] was of silver and its stone (Fass) was made of silver too (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet's ring was made of silver and its stone (Fass) was made of silver too (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The ring of the Prophet [SAW] was made of silver and its stone (Fass) was made of silver too (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] delayed 'Isha' prayer one night, until half the night had passed, then he came out and led us in prayer. And it is as if I can see the whiteness of his silver ring on his hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Wahab narrated from Sulaiman - and he is Ibn Bilal - from Sharik - and he is Ibn Abi Namr - from Ibrahim Ibn 'Abdullah bin Hunain, from his father, from 'Ali; Sharik said:"And Abu Salamah informed me" - That the Prophet [SAW] used to wear his ring on his right hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Ja'far that:The Prophet [SAW] used to wear his ring on his right hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
Iyas bin Al-Harith bin Al-Mu'aiqib narrated that his grandfather Mu'aiqib said:"The ring of the Prophet [SAW] was made of iron with silver twisted around it." He said: "And sometimes it was on my hand." And Mu'aiqib was the keeper of the ring of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] came out wearing a silver ring. He said: 'Whoever wants to make a ring like this, let him do so, but do not put the same inscription (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Do not be so close to the Mushrikin that you can benefit from the light of their fires, and do not engrave Arabic (words) on your rings (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Burdah said:'Ali said: "The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said to me: 'O 'Ali, ask Allah for guidance and steadfastness,' and he forbade me from placing a ring on this one and this one' - and he pointed to his forefinger and middle finger (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me to wear a ring on this one and this one," meaning the forefinger and middle finger. And this is the wording of Ibn Al-Muthanna (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:When entering the Khala', the Messenger of Allah [SAW] would take off his ring (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] put on a ring of gold and put its stone (Fass) toward his palm. Then the people started to wear rings, and the Messenger of Allah [SAW] discarded it and said: "I will never wear it again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Bakr bin Musa said:"I was with Salim bin 'Abdullah when Salim narrated from his father, that the Prophet [SAW] said: 'The angels do not accompany groups of people who have small bells with them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim, from his father,:Who attributed it to the Prophet [SAW]: "The angels do not accompany groups of people who have small bells with them (from eng-nasai.txt)
Umm Salamah, the wife of the Prophet [SAW], said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'The angels do not enter a house in which there is a small bell, or a bell, and the angels do not accompany groups of people who have bells with them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said to me: 'Five things are from the Fitrah: Trimming the mustache, plucking the armpit hairs, clipping the nails, shaving the pubes and circumcision (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Trim the mustache and let the beard grow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade Al-Qaza' (shaving part of the head and leaving part) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbidding Al-Qaza' (shaving part of the head and leaving part) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Al-Qaza' (shaving part of the head and leaving part) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :The Prophet [SAW] forbade Al-Qaza' (shaving part of the head and leaving part) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] was a man of average height with broad shoulders, a thick beard and a reddish complexion, and his hair came down to his earlobes. I saw him in a red Hullah and I never saw anything more handsome than him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' said:"I never saw any long haired man in a Hullah who was more handsome than the Messenger of Allah [SAW], and he had hair that came down to his shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The hair of the Prophet [SAW] came halfway down his ears (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The hair of the Prophet [SAW] came down to his shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Prophet [SAW] came to us and saw a man with wild hair. He said: 'Could this man not find anything with which to calm down his hair? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Qatadah said:That he had long thick hair. "He asked the Prophet (about it) and he told him to take care of it and comb it every day (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] liked to start on the right whenever possible; when purifying himself, when putting on his shoes, and when combing his hair (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "The Jews and the Christians do not dye their hair, so be different from them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"Abu Quhafah was brought to the Messenger of Allah [SAW] and his head and beard were white like the Thaghamah. The Prophet [SAW] said: 'Change this, or dye it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ubaid said:"I saw Ibn 'Umar dyeing his beard yellow and I asked him about that. 'He said: "I saw the Prophet [SAW] dye his beard yellow (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Prophet [SAW] used to wear Sibtiyyah sandals and dye his beard yellow with Wars and saffron." And Ibn 'Umar used to do that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab said:"Mu'awiyah came to Al-Madinah and addressed us. He took hold of a hairpiece and said: 'I never used to see anyone do this except the Jews. The Messenger of Allah [SAW] heard of it and he called it "giving a false impression (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Mu'awiyah said:"O people, the Prophet [SAW] forbade you to give false impressions. He brought a piece of black cloth and threw it in front of them and said: 'This is what women are putting on their heads and covering it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Mu'awiyah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade giving a false impression, and the false impression of a woman when she adds extra hair to her head (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed the woman who affixes hair extensions (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed the woman who affixes hair extensions and the one who has that done, and the woman who does tattoos and the one who has that done (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"May Allah curse Al-Mutanammisat and who have their teeth separated. Shall I not curse those whom the Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed the women who do tattoos, those who have their teeth separated and Al-Mutanammisat who change the creation of Allah, the Mighty and Sublime (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibrahim said:"Abdullah used to say: 'May Allah curse the women who have tattoos done and Al-Mutanammisat, and have the women who have their teeth separated. Should I not curse those whom the Messenger of Allah [SAW] cursed? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade men to use saffron (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) forbade men to use saffron on their skin (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"If perfume was brought to the Prophet [SAW], he would not refuse it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Whoever is offered perfume, let him not refuse it for it is easy to carry, and smells good (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zainab, the wife of 'Abdullah, said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'If one of you (women) wants to attend 'Isha' (prayer). Let her not touch any perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Busr bin Sa'eed that Zainab, the wife of 'Abdullah, told him that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said to her: "If you go out to 'Isha' then do not touch any perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zainab Ath-Thaqafiyyah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Any one of you (women) who wants to go out to the Masjid should not go near any perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Any woman who has been perfumed with incense should not attend 'Isha' the later with us (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Prophet [SAW] mentioned a woman who filled her ring with musk and said: 'That is the best of perfume (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Allah has permitted silk and gold to the females of my Ummah, and has forbidden them to the males (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"I was forbidden to wear red garments and gold rings, and to recite Qur'an when bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Prophet [SAW] forbade me from wearing gold rings, reciting Qur'an while I am bowing, and from Al-Qassi, and garments dyed with safflower (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from wearing gold rings, and from garments of Al-Qassi, and garments dyed with safflower, and reciting Qur'an while bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from reciting Qur'an while bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from wearing garments dyed with safflower, and from gold rings, and from wearing Al-Qassi, and that I recite Qur'an while I am bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from four things: Wearing garments dyed with safflower, and from wearing gold rings, and from wearing Al-Qassiyah garments, and reciting Qur'an while I am bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Hunain, that 'Ali said that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade garments dyed with safflower, and from silk, and reciting Qur'an while he is bowing, and from gold rings (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade gold rings (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade gold rings (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The inscription on the ring of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] was: Muhammad Rasul Allah (Muhammad the Messenger of Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that :The Prophet [SAW] put on a silver ring with and Ethiopian stone (Fass), on which the inscription was: "Muhammad Rasul Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] put on a ring of silver with an Ethiopian stone (Fass) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The ring of the Prophet [SAW] was of silver, and its stone (Fass) was made of silver too (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'We have had a ring made with an inscription, and no one else should copy this inscription (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet [SAW] had a ring and he said: "We have had a ring made with an inscription, and no one else should copy this inscription." It is as if I can see its shining on the little finer of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet [SAW] used to wear his ring on his right hand (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"It is as if I can see the whiteness of the Prophet's ring on his left finger (from eng-nasai.txt)
Thabit narrated that :They asked Anas about the ring of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] and he said: "It is as if I can see the shining of his silver ring, and he raised his left little finger (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Burdah said:"I heard 'Ali say: 'The Prophet of Allah [SAW] forbade me to wear a ring on the forefinger and middle finger (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me to wear (a ring) on this finger," and it was on the middle finger and the one next to it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] took a ring and put it on, then he said: "This distracted me from you all day, shifting my gaze from it to you (and back again)." Then he threw it away (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:He saw a ring of silver on the hand of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] one day, and the people made and wore similar rings. Then the Prophet [SAW] threw his ring away and the people threw their rings away too (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"I saw Zainab, the daughter of the Prophet [SAW], wearing a Qamis of Sira (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:He saw Umm Kalthum, the daughter of the Messenger of Allah [SAW], wearing a Burdah of Sira' silk, and Sira' is a fabric with stripes of silk (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"A Hullah of Sira' was given to the Messenger of Allah [SAW] and he sent it to me. I put it on, then I saw anger in his face. He said: 'I did not give it to you to wear it.' Then he told me to divide it among my womenfolk (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Az-Zubair said, while he was on the Minbar delivering a Khutbah:"Muhammad [SAW] said: 'Whoever wears silk in this world, will not wear it in the Hereafter (from eng-nasai.txt)
Khalifah said:"I heard 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair say: 'Do not let your womenfolk wear silk, for I heard 'Umar bin Al-Khattab say: The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: Whoever wears it in this world will not wear it in the Hereafter (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar, :That the Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Silk is only worn by one who has no share (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' bin 'Azib said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] enjoined seven things upon us, and forbade seven things for us. He forbade to us gold rings, silver vessels, Al-Mayathir, Al-Qassiyah, Al-Istabraq, Ad-Dibaj, and silk (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] granted a concession to 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf and Az-Zubair bin Al-'Awwam allowing them to wear silken shirts because of scabies that they were suffering from (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet [SAW] granted a concession to 'Abdur-Rahman and Az-Zubair to wear silken shirts because of scabies that they were suffering from (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar that:He did not allow the wearing of silk except (something) the width of four fingers (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Al-Bara' said:"I saw the Prophet [SAW] wearing a red Hullah, with his hair combed, and I have never seen anyone before or since, who was more handsome than he (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The most beloved of garments to the Prophet of Allah [SAW] was the Hibarah (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr narrated that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] saw him wearing two garments dyed with safflower and he said: "This is the clothing of disbelievers; do not wear it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that:He came to the Prophet [SAW] wearing two garments dyed with safflower. The Prophet [SAW] got angry and said: "Go and take them off." He said: "Where should I throw them, O Messenger of Allah?" He said: "In the fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from wearing gold rings, and from wearing Al-Qassiyah garments, and garments dyed with safflower, and reciting Qur'an while I am bowing (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Rimthah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] came out to us wearing two green garments (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Khabbab bin Al-Aratt said:"We complained to the Messenger of Allah [SAW] when he was reclining on his rolled-up Burdah in the shade of the Ka'bah. We said: 'Will you not pray for victory for us, will you not pray to Allah for us? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Samurah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Wear white garments, for they are purer and better, and shroud your dead in them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'You should wear white garments; dress your living ones in them, and shroud your dead in them, for they are among the best of your garments (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:He heard the Prophet [SAW] say in 'Arafat: "Whoever cannot find an Izar (waist wrapper), let him wear trousers, and whoever cannot find sandals, let him wear Khuffs (leather socks) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "While a man was dragging his Izar out of pride, the earth swallowed him up, and he will continue sinking into it until the Day of Resurrection (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever drags his garment out of pride, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Muharib said:"I heard Ibn 'Umar narrating that the Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever drags his garment out of vanity, Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whatever of the Izar comes below the ankles is in the Fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Prophet [SAW] said: "Whatever of the Izar comes below the ankles is in the Fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ash'ath said:"I heard Sa'eed bin Jubair narrate from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet [SAW] said: 'Allah will not look at the Musbil (the one who lets his Izar come below the ankles) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Al-Isbal may apply to the Izar, the Qamis and the turban. Whoever drags any one of these out of vanity, Allah will not look at him on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Umm Salamah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] was asked how much a woman should let her hem drag. He said: 'A hand span.' She said: 'But then it will uncover her (feet).' He said: 'A forearm's length, and no more than that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ishtimal As-Samma' and wrapping oneself in a single garment (that did not cover the private parts) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ishtimal As-Samma' and wrapping oneself in a single garment (that did not cover the private parts) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ishtimal As-Samma' and wrapping oneself in a single garment (that did not cover the private parts) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ja'far bin 'Amr bin Huraith that his father said:"I saw the Prophet [SAW] wearing a black turban (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:On the Day of the Conquest of Makkah, the Messenger of Allah [SAW] entered (the city) wearing a black turban, and he was not in Ihram (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir said:"The Prophet [SAW] entered (Makkah) on the Day of the Conquest wearing a black turban (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ja'far bin 'Amr bin Umayyah that his father said:"It is as if I am looking now at the Messenger of Allah [SAW] on the Minbar, wearing a black turban, the end of which he has let hang down between his shoulders (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Talhah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "The angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or an image (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Talhah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'The angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or an image of an animate being (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:"I made some food and invited the Prophet [SAW] (to come and eat). He came and entered, then he saw a curtain on which there were images, so he went out and said: 'The Angels do not enter a house in which there are images (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] went out, then he came in, and I had hung up a curtain on which there were (images of) horses with wings. When he saw it, he said: 'Get rid of it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"In my house there was a cloth on which were images, which I put in a niche of the house, and the Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to pray facing it. Then he said: 'O 'Aishah, take it away from me.' So I took it down and made it into pillows (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever makes an image will be punished until (he is commanded) to breathe a soul into it, and he will not be able to do so (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever makes an image will be commanded on the Day of Resurrection to breathe the soul into it but he will not be able to do so (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "The makers of these images will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said to them: 'Breathe life into that which you have created (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah, the wife of the Prophet [SAW], that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "The makers of these images will be punished on the Day of Resurrection, and it will be said to them: 'Bring to life that which you have created (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah, the wife of the Prophet [SAW], said:"The people who will be most severely punished on the Day of Resurrection will be those who try to match the creation of Allah (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Among the people who will be most severely punished on the Day of Resurrection will be the image-makers (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] would not pray in our blankets (from eng-nasai.txt)
Anas narrated that :The sandals of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] had two straps (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Aws said:"The sandals of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] had two straps (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "If the strap of the sandal of one of you breaks, let him not walk in one sandal until he fixes it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Umamah bin Sahl said:"The pommel of the sword of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] was of silver (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The metallic end of the scabbard of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] was of silver, the pommel of his sword was silver, and in between were rings of silver (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Abi Al-Hasan said:"The pommel of the sword of the Messenger of Allah [SAW] was of silver (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali said:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said to me: "Say: O Allah, make me steadfast and guide me." And he forbade me to sit on Al-Mayathir." Al-Mayathir: Qassi which the women used to put on the saddles for their husbands, such as red cushions (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Juhaifah said:"We were with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Al-Batha' and he was in a red tent, and some people were with him, and he was about to set out. Bilal came and called the Adhan, turning this way and that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdur-Rahman bin Samurah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Do not ask for governorship. For if it is given to you because of asking, you will be left to your own devices, but if it is given to you without asking, you will be helped (by Allah) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Prophet [SAW] said: "You will be keen for governorship but it will be regret and loss on the Day of Resurrection. What a good position it is when they are alive, but how miserable their state when they die (and leave it behind) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:A man came to the Prophet [SAW] and said: "My father is an old man, can I perform Hajj on his behalf?" He said: "Yes. Don't you think that if he owed a debt and you paid it off, that would suffice him? (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'The most hated of men to Allah is the most quarrelsome of opponents (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa:That two men referred a dispute to the Prophet [SAW] concerning an animal, and neither of them had any evidence, so he ruled that it be shared equally between them (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah bin 'Amir that :He asked the Messenger of Allah [SAW] about Al-Mu'awwidhatain. 'Uqbah said: "The Messenger of Allah [SAW] recited them when he led us in Salah Al-Ghadah (As-Subh) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Uqbah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] recited them in the Subh prayer (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Amr that:The Prophet [SAW] used to seek refuge (with Allah) from four things: From knowledge that is of no benefit, from a heart that does not feel humble, from a supplication that is not heard, and a soul that is never satisfied (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar that:The Prophet [SAW] used to seek refuge with Allah from cowardice, miserliness, the tribulation of the heart and the torment of the grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Mas'ud said:"The Prophet [SAW] used to seek refuge (with Allah) from five things: From miserliness, cowardice, reaching the age of second childhood, the tribulation of the heart and the torment of the grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] often used to seek refuge (with Allah) from debt and sin. I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, how often you seek refuge from debt!' He said: 'Whoever gets into debt speaks and lies, and makes a promise and breaks it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Seek refuge with Allah from poverty, want, humiliation and wronging others or being wronged (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Seek refuge with Allah from poverty, want and humiliation, and from wronging others or being wronged (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Seek refuge with Allah from poverty, want and humiliation, and from wronging others or being wronged (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to say in his supplication: 'Allahumma inni a'udhu bika minash-shiqaqi wan-nifaqi, wa suw'il-akhlaq (O Allah, I seek refuge with You from opposing the truth, hypocrisy and bad manners) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Sa'eed said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'A'udhu billahi minal-kufri wad-dain. (I seek refuge with Allah from Kufr and debt.)' A man said: 'O Messenger of Allah, are you equating debt with Kufr?' The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "A'udhu billahi minal-kufri wad-dain. (I seek refuge with Allah from Kufr and debt.)" A man said: "Are you equating debt with Kufr?" He said: "Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Umar that:The Prophet [SAW] used to seek refuge with Allah from cowardice, miserliness, reaching the age of second childhood, the trials of the heart and the torment of the grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Maimun said:"The Companions of Muhammad [SAW] told me that the Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to seek refuge with Allah from stinginess, cowardice, the trials of the heart and the torment of the grave (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Amr bin Maimun said:"The Prophet [SAW] used to seek refuge." Mursal (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to say: "A'udhu billahi minal-kufri wal-faqr. (O Allah, I seek refuge with You from Kufr and poverty.)" A man said: "Are they equal?" He said: "Yes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Prophet [SAW] used to seek refuge from being destined to an evil end, from his enemies rejoicing in his misfortune, from being overtaken by destruction and from the difficult moment of a calamity (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas that:The Prophet [SAW] used to say: "Allahumma inni a'udhu bika minal-jununi wal-jadhami, wal-barasi wa sayy'il-asqam (O Allah, I seek refuge in You from possession, leprosy, leukederma and bad sickness (that may lead to visible deformity) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to seek refuge from the evil eye of the Jinn and the evil eye of humans. When Al-Mu'awwadhatan were revealed, he started to recite them and stopped reciting anything else (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Seek refuge with Allah from a bad neighbor in one's permanent abode, for one's neighbor in the desert will change (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet [SAW] used to seek refuge with Allah from the torment of the grave and the tribulation of the Dajjal, and he said: "You will be tried in your graves (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Seek refuge with Allah from the torment of the grave, seek refuge with Allah from the trials of life and death, and seek refuge with Allah from the tribulation of Al-Masihid-Dajjal (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"He (meaning the Prophet [SAW]) said: 'Seek refuge with Allah from five things: From the torment of Hell, the torment of the grave, the trials of life and death, and the tribulation of Al-Masihid-Dajjal (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Seek refuge with Allah from the punishment of Allah, seek refuge with Allah from the trials of life and death, from the torment of the grave and from the tribulation of the Al-Masihid-Dajjal (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to seek refuge (with Allah) from the torment of Hell, the torment of the grave, and Al-Masihid-Dajjal (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Seek refuge with Allah from the torment of the Fire and the torment of the grave, from the trials of life and death, and from the evil of Al-Masihid-Dajjal (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever asks Allah for Paradise three times, Paradise will say: 'O Allah, admit him to Paradise.' And whoever seeks protection from Hell three times, Hell will say: 'O Allah, protect him from the Fire (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to say: 'Allahumma, inni a'udhu bika min sharri ma 'amiltu wa min sharri ma lam a'mal ba'd (O Allah, I seek refuge with You from the evil of what I have done and from the evil of what I have not done yet) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Umar said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] say: 'Allahumma, inni a'udhu bi-'azamatika an ughtala min tahti (O Allah, I seek refuge in Your greatness from being swallowed up from beneath me) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Prophet [SAW] used to say: 'Allahumma (O Allah,)' and he mentioned the supplication, and said at the end, 'A'udhu bika an ughtala min tahti (and I seek refuge with You from being swallowed up from beneath me) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas bin Malik said:"When Khamr was forbidden, their drink was (made from) unripe dates and dried dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Jabir - meaning bin 'Abdullah - said:"Unripe dates and dried dates are Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"Unripe dates and dried dates are Khamr." Al-A'mash narrated it in Marfu' form (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Raisins and dried dates are Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Abi Laila, from one of the Companions of the Prophet [SAW], that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade (mixtures of) Al-Balh and dried dates, and of raisins and dried dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba', Al-Hantam, Al-Muzaffat, and An-Naqir, and (he forbade) mixing Al-Balh with Az-Zahuw (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba', Al-Muzaffat," - and on one occasion he added: "An-Naqir," - "and (he forbade) mixing At-Tamr (dried dates) with raisins, and Az-Zahuw with At-Tamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade (mixing) Az-Zahuw and At-Tamr, and raisins and dried dates (At-Tamr) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah narrated from his father that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Do not combine dried dates with raisins, nor Az-Zahuw with ripe dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Do not soak Az-Zahuw and ripe dates together, and do not soak raisins and ripe dates together (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade mixing dried dates and raisins, and mixing Az-Zahuw and dried dates, and Az-Zahuw and Al-Busr (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ata' narrated from Jabir that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade mixing dried dates and raisins, and Al-Busr and ripe dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir, that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Do not mix raisins and dried dates, nor Al-Busr and dried dates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade soaking raisins and dried dates together, and he forbade soaking Al-Busr and dried dates together (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Al-Busr on their own are unlawful and with dried dates they are unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade mixing dried dates and raisins, and dried dates and Al-Busr (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade dried dates and raisins, and he forbade dried dates and Al-Busr, if they are soaked together (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah, from his father, that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Do not soak Az-Zahuw and ripe dates, and do not soak ripe dates and raisins together (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade soaking raisins and Al-Busr together, and he forbade soaking Al-Busr and ripe dates together (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Idris said:"I saw Anas bin Malik when some Busr which had extra bits were brought to him, and he started to cut them off (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that :Anas would not leave any dates that had become ripe but he would remove them from his Fadikh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Qatadah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Do not soak Az-Zahuw and ripe dates together, nor Al-Busr and raisins together. Soak each one of them on its own (from eng-nasai.txt)
Yahya narrated that 'Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah said to him from his father, that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade mixing Az-Zahuw and dried dates, and mixing Al-Busr and dried dates, and he said: "Soak each one of them on its own in vessels that are tied shut (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade mixing Al-Busr with dried dates, or raisins with dried dates, or raisins with Al-Busr, and he said: "Whoever among you (wants to) drink them, let him drink each one on its own (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade mixing Al-Busr and raisins, and Al-Busr and dried dates, and he said: 'Soak each one of them on its own (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade soaking dried dates and raisins, and dried dates and Al-Busr, and he said: "Soak raisins on their own, and dried dates on their own, and Al-Busr on their own (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Khamr comes from these two.'" Suwaid (one of the narrators) said: "From these two trees: The date palm and the grapevine (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Khamr comes from these two trees: The date palm and the grapevine (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Al-Mughirah that Ibrahim and Al-Sha'bi said:"Strong drink is Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Jubair said:"Strong drink is Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Jubair said:"Strong drink is Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Jubair said:"Strong drink is unlawful, and a 'goodly provision' (is lawful) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"I heard 'Umar bin Al-Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, on the Minbar of the Messenger of Allah [SAW], say: 'The prohibition of Khamr was revealed when it was made from five things: From grapes, wheat, barley, dates and honey (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Khamr is made from five things: From dates, wheat, barley, honey and grapes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Every intoxicant is unlawful and every intoxicant is Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Every intoxicant is unlawful and every intoxicant is Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Every intoxicant is Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Every intoxicant is Khamr and every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Every intoxicant is unlawful and every intoxicant is Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade soaking (fruits) in Ad-Dubba', Al-Muzaffat, An-Naqir, Al-Hantam, and every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "Do not soak (fruits) in Ad-Dubba', An-Naqir, Al-Hantam, and every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Every drink that intoxicates is unlawful.'" Qutaibah (one of the narrators) said: "From the Prophet [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah, may Allah be pleased with her, that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] was asked about mead and he said: "Every drink that intoxicates is unlawful." This is the wording of Suwaid (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah, may Allah be pleased with her, that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] was asked about mead and he said: "Every drink that intoxicates is unlawful," and mead is made from honey (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Aishah that:The Prophet [SAW] was asked about mead and he said: "Every drink that intoxicates is unlawful." And mead is a drink made of honey (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Burdah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] sent Mu'adh and me to Yemen. Mu'adh said: 'You are sending us to a land where the people have many kinds of drinks. What should I drink?' He said: 'Drink, but do not drink any intoxicant (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Musa said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Sirin said:"Every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdul-Malik bin At-Tufail Al-Jazari said:"Umar bin 'Abdul-Aziz wrote to us, saying: 'Do not drink the thickened juice of grapes (obtained by boiling it down) until two-third of it has gone and one-third is left. And every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that As-Sa'q bin Hazn said:"Umar bin 'Abdul-'Aziz wrote to 'Adiy bin Artah (saying): 'Every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "What intoxicates in large amounts, a small amount of it is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amir bin Sa'd, from his father, that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "I forbid to you small amounts of whatever intoxicates in large amounts (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Amir bin Sa'd, from his father, that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade a small amount of whatever intoxicates in large amounts (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Ali - may Allah honor his face - said:"The Prophet [SAW] forbade to me to use gold rings, Al-Qassi, Al-Mitharah and Al-Ji'ah (a barley drink) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Sa'sa'ah said to 'Ali bin Abi Talib - may Allah honor his face - :"Forbid to us, O Commander of the Believers! What the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade to you." He said: "The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade me from using Ad-Dubba' and Al-Hantam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that :(fruits) would be soaked for the Prophet [SAW] in a small vessel made of stone (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Tawus said:"A man said to Ibn 'Umar: 'Did the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbid soaking (fruits) in earthenware jars?' He said: 'Yes.' Tawus said: 'By Allah, I heard that from him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sulaiman At-Taimi and Ibrahim bin Maisarah said:"We heard Tawus say: 'A man came to Ibn 'Umar and said: Did the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbid soaking (fruits) in earthenware jars? He said: 'Yes.' Ibrahim added in his Hadith: "And Ad-Dubba' (gourds) (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade soaking (fruits) in earthenware jars (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Al-Hantam. I (the narrator) said: "What is Al-Hantam?" He said: "The earthenware jar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Maslamah said:"I heard 'Abdul-'Aziz - that is, bin Asid At-Tahi from Al-Basrah - say: 'Ibn Az-Zubair was asked about soaking (fruits) in earthenware jars and he said: "The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade us from that (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ash-Shaibani said:"I heard Ibn Abi Awfa say: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Nabidh made in green earthenware jars.' I said: 'And white ones?' He said: 'I do not know (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Ishaq Ash-Shaibani said:"I heard Ibn Abi Awfa say: 'The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Nabidh made in green and white earthenware jars (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds) and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ali - may Allah honor his face - that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds) and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Ya'mar that:The Prophet [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Anas bin Malik that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade soaking (fruits) in Ad-Dubba' (gourds) and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade soaking (fruits) in Ad-Dubba' (gourds) and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Al-Muzaffat and squashes (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds), Al-Hantam and An-Naqir (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri said:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade drinking from green pitchers, gourds and vessels carved from wood (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds), Al-Hantam and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade earthenware jars, Ad-Dubba' (gourds), Al-Muzaffat containers (from eng-nasai.txt)
Aishah said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbidding drinks made in Dubba' (gourds), Hantam or Muzaffat, that were not oil or vinegar (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds), Al-Hantam, An-Naqir, and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah, may Allah be pleased with her, said:"He forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds) specifically (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jabir said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Al-Muzaffat jars, Ad-Dubba' (gourds), An-Naqir, and if the Prophet [SAW] could not find a water-skin in which to make Nabidh, it would be made for him in a small vessel of stone (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba' (gourds), An-Naqir, earthenware jars, and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah that:The Prophet [SAW] granted a concession allowing earthenware jars that are not coated with pitch (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Buraidah that his father said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'I used to forbid certain kinds of vessels to you. Now soak (fruits) in whatever you wish, but beware of any intoxicant (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir that :When the Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade large water skins that are cut from the top and can no longer be closed, Ansar complained and said: "O Messenger of Allah, we do not have any vessels." The Prophet [SAW] said: "Then there is no harm (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Muhairiz narrated from a man among the Companions of the Prophet [SAW] that :The Prophet [SAW] said: "People among my Ummah will drink Khamr, calling it by another name (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar and a number of the Companions of Muhammad [SAW] said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever drinks Khamr, whip him; then if he drinks (again), whip him; then if he drinks (again), whip him; then if he drinks (again), kill him (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Hurairah that :The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "If he becomes drunk, whip him; then if he becomes drunk, whip him; then if he becomes drunk, whip him." Then he said concerning the fourth time, "Strike his neck (i.e., kill him) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Burdah bin Abi Musa, :That his father used to say: "I do not see any difference between drinking Khamr and worshipping this column instead of Allah the Mighty and Sublime (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Masruq said:"If a judge accepts a gift he has consumed something unlawful, and if he accepts a bribe, that takes him to the level of Kufr." Masruq said: "Whoever drinks Khamr, he has committed (an act of) Kufr, and his Kufr is that his Salah does not count (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Whoever drinks Khamr in this world and does not repent from that, will be denied it in the Hereafter (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin 'Amr that:The Prophet [SAW] said: "No one who reminds others of his favors, no one who is disobedient to his parents and no drunkard, will enter Paradise (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that :The Prophet [SAW] said: "Whoever drinks Khamr in this world and dies addicted to it, and not having repented, will not drink it in the Hereafter (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Whoever drinks Khamr in this world and dies addicted to it, will not drink it in the Hereafter (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ad-Dahhak said:"Whoever dies addicted to Khamr will have boiling water thrown in his face when he departs this world (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Burdah bin Niyar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Drink from vessels but do not become intoxicated (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Buraidah, from his father, that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] forbade Ad-Dubba', Al-Hantam, An-Naqir, and Al-Muzaffat (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Simak, from Qirsafah, one of their womenfolk, that:'Aishah said: "Drink but do not become intoxicated (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Aishah was asked about drinks and she said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] used to forbid all intoxicants." And they use the narration of 'Abdullah bin Shaddad from 'Abdullah bin 'Abbas (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Shubrumah who mentioned it from 'Abdullah bin Shaddad bin Al-Had, from Ibn 'Abbas, who said:"Khamr was forbidden in small or large amounts, as was every kind of intoxicating drink (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Khamr was forbidden in and of itself in small or large amounts, as was every kind of intoxicating drink (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Khamr was forbidden in and of itself, in small or large amounts, as was every kind of intoxicating drink (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Khamr was forbidden in small or large amounts, as was every kind of drink that intoxicates (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"Whoever would like to regard as forbidden that which Allah and His Messenger [SAW] regard as forbidden, let him regard Nabidh as forbidden (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Abbas said:"Nabidh made from Al-Busr is forbidden and is not permissible (from eng-nasai.txt)
Narrated from 'Abdul-Malik bin Nafi' from Ibn 'Umar:A similar report was narrated from 'Abdul-Malik bin Nafi' from Ibn 'Umar, from the Prophet [SAW] (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Umar that:A man asked about drinks and he said: "Avoid everything that intoxicates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Zaid bin Jubair said:"I asked Ibn 'Umar about drinks and he said: 'Avoid everything that intoxicates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Intoxicants are unlawful in small or large amounts (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"Every intoxicant is Khamr and every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Salim bin 'Abdullah, from his father, that:The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: "Allah has forbidden Khamr, and every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah [SAW] said: 'Every intoxicant is unlawful and every intoxicant is Khamr (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Rafi' that :'Umar bin Al-Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, said: "If you fear that Nabidh may be too strong, then weaken it with water." 'Abdullah (one of the narrators) said: "Before it gets strong (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Yahya bin Sa'eed who heard Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab say:"Thaqif welcomed 'Umar with a drink. He called for it, but when he brought it close to his mouth, he did not like it. He called for water to weaken it, and said: 'Do like this (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Utbah bin Farqad said:"The Nabidh that 'Umar bin Al-Khattab used to drink had turned to vinegar (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Al-Hawra' As-Sa'di said:"I said to Al-Hasan bin 'Ali, may Allah be pleased with him: 'What did you memorize from the Messenger of Allah [SAW]?' He said: I memorized from him: 'Leave that which makes you doubt for that which does not make you doubt (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn Tawus, from his father, that:He disliked to sell raisins to one who would use them to make Nabidh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Sirin said:"Sell it as juice to one who will make At-Tila' (thickened grape juice) with it, and not Khamr (wine) with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Suwiad bin Ghafalah said:"Umar bin Al-Khattab wrote to some of his workers saying: 'Give to the Muslims thickened grape juice when two thirds of it have gone and one-third is left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdullah bin Yazid Al-Khatmi said:"Umar bin Al-Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, wrote to us (saying): 'Cook your drinks until the share of the Shaitan is gone, for he has two (shares) and you have one (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ash-Sha'bi said:"Ali, may Allah be pleased with him, used to give the people thickened grape juice into which flies would fall and not be able to get out again (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Dawud said:"I asked Sa'eed: 'What is the drink that 'Umar bin Al-Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him, regarded as permissible?' He said: 'That which has been cooked until two-third has gone and one-third is left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab that :Abu Ad-Darda' used to drink that of which two-third had gone and one-third was left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu Musa Al-'Ash'ari that:He used to drink thickened grape juice that of which two-third had gone and one-third was left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ya'la bin 'Ata' said:"I heard Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab say, when a Bedouin asked him about a drink that had been cooked and reduced by half: 'No, not until two-third has gone and one-third is left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab said:"When At-Tila' (thickened grape juice) has been cooked and reduced to one-third, then there is nothing wrong with it (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abu Raja' said:"I asked Al-Hasan about At-Tila' (thickened grape juice) that has been reduced to half. He said: 'Do not drink it (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Bushair bin Al-Muhajir said:"I asked Al-Hasan about juice that has been cooked. He said: 'That which has been cooked until two-third of it has gone and one-third is left (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abdul-Malik bin Tufail Al-Jazari said:"Umar bin 'Abdul-'Aziz wrote to us (saying): 'Do not drink At-Tila' (thickened grape juice) until two-third of it are gone and one-third remains, and every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Makhul said:"Every intoxicant is unlawful (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab said:"Drink juice so long as it does not have any foam (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Hisham bin 'A'idh Al-Asadi said:"I asked Ibrahim about juice and he said: 'Drink it, unless it bubbles, so long as it doesn't change (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from 'Ata' that :He said, concerning juice: "Drink it unless it is bubbling (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ash-Sha'bi said:"Drink it for three days unless it bubbles (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas that:Raisins would be soaked for the Messenger of Allah [SAW] and he would drink it that day, the following day, and the day after that (from eng-nasai.txt)
Abdullah said:"I heard Sufyan being asked about Nabidh. He said: 'Make Nabidh at night and drink it in the morning (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Abu 'Uthman, who was not Al-Hindi, that:Umm Al-Fadl sent word to Anas bin Malik, asking him about Nabidh made in an earthenware jar. He told her about his son An-Nadr, who used to make Nabidh in an earthenware jar in the morning and drink it in the evening (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyib that:He disliked putting the dregs of Nabidh into (new) Nabidh lest it become strong because of the dregs (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab said concerning Nabidh:"The dregs are what intoxicates (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab said:"Khamr is so called because it is left until the good parts are gone and the dregs remain." And he disliked everything that was made by using dregs (by adding new materials to the dregs) (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibrahim said:"They used to think that whoever drank something and became intoxicated from it, it was not befitting for him to go back and drink more of the same (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibrahim said:"There is nothing wrong with Nabidh Al-Bukhtuj (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Abu Al-Miskin said:"I asked Ibrahim: 'We take the dregs of Khamr or Tila' (thickened grape juice) and clean them, then we soak it with raisins for three days, then we strain it and leave it until it matures, then we drink it.' He said: 'That is Makruh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Shubrumah said:"May Allah have mercy on Ibrahim. Other scholars had strict views on Nabidh but he was lenient (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ibn Al-Mubarak said:"I have never found any sound report, giving a concession on intoxicants, except the report narrated from Ibrahim (from eng-nasai.txt)
Ubaidullah bin Sa'eed said:"I heard Abu Usamah say: 'I never saw any man more assiduous in seeking knowledge than 'Abdullah bin Al-Mubarak, not in Ash-Sham, Egypt, Yemen or the Hijaz (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:Umm Sulaim had a wooden cup and she said: "I gave the Messenger of Allah [SAW] all kinds of things to drink in it: Water, honey, milk and Nabidh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that Ibn Mas'ud said:"The people have invented new drinks and I do not know what they are. I have not drunk anything for 20 years (or he said: 40 years) except water and Sawiq (barley gruel), and he did not mention Nabidh (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated that 'Abidah said:"The people have invented drinks and I do not know what they are. I have not drunk anything for 20 years except water, milk and honey (from eng-nasai.txt)
Jarir said:"Ibn Shubrumah would not drink anything except water and milk (from eng-nasai.txt)
(Another chain) with similarity (from eng-nasai.txt)
It was narrated from Zaid bin Thabit that the Prophet ruled that 'Umra (a gift given for life) belongs to the heir (from eng-nasai.txt)
Qatadah said:"Anas used to tell us to cut off the extra bits (from eng-nasai.txt)
On the authority of Tameem ibn Aus ad-Daree (ra): The Prophet (ﷺ) said, “The deen (religion) is naseehah (advice, sincerity).” We said, “To whom?” He (ﷺ) said, “To Allah, His Book, His Messenger, and to the leaders of the Muslims and their common folk.” [Muslim] (from eng-nawawi.txt)
On the authority of Abu Harayrah (may Allah be pleased with him) from the Prophet (ﷺ), who said: Allah (mighty and sublime be He) said: Spend (on charity), O son of Adam, and I shall spend on you. It was related by al-Bukhari (also by Muslim) (from eng-qudsi.txt)
Ali narrated that :the Prophet, said: "The key to Salat is the purification, its Tahrlm is the Takblr, and its Tahlil is the Taslim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah, may Allah be pleased with them, narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "The key to Paradise is Salat, and the key to Salat is Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:"When the Prophet entered the toilet he would say: 'O Allah Indeed I seek refuge in You.'" Shu'bah (one of the narrators) said: "Another time he said: 'I seek refuge in You from AI-Khubthi and al-Khablth.' Or: 'Al-Khubthi and Al-Khaba'ith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:"When the Prophet would enter the toilet 'He said: "O Allah! Indeed I seek refuge in You from Al-Khubith and Al- Khaba'ith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah, [may Allah be pleased with her] said:"When the Prophet would exit the toilet he would say: 'Ghufranak (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "When one of you arrives to defecate, then let none of you face the Qiblah while defecating, nor while urinating. And do not have your back towards it, but have it east of you or west of you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah said:"The Prophet prohibited us from facing the Qiblah while urinating. Then i saw him facing it a year before he died (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"One day I climbed on Hafsah's house, and I saw the Prophet relieving himself while facing Ash-Sham, with his back toward the Ka'bah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah said:"Whoever narrated to you that the Prophet would urinate while standing; then do not believe him. He would not urinate except while squatting." [He said:] There are narrations on this topic from Umar, Buraidah, [and Abdur-Rahman bin Hasanah] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hudhaifah narrated:"Allah's Messenger came to a waste area used by people, so he urinated on it while standing. I brought him the (water for) Wudu. Then I left to be away from him, but he called me until I was behind him. So he performed Wudu and wiped (Masaba) over his Khuff (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas, may Allah Most High be pleased with him, said:"When the Prophet wanted to relieve himself, he would not raise his garment until he was close to the ground (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Abu Qatadah narrated from his father:"The Prophet prohibited that a man should touch his penis with his right hand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah said:"Allah's Messenger went out to relieve himself. So he said: 'Bring me tree stones.'" He said, "So I came with two stones and a piece of dung. So he took the two stones, and left the dung. He said: 'It is Riks (a degenerative or filthy thing) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Do not perform Istinja, with dung, nor with bones. For indeed it is provisions for your brothers among the Jinn (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah said:"Encourage your Husbands to clean themselves with water, for I am too shy of them, and Allah's Messenger would do that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah said:I was with the Prophet on a journey. The Prophet had to relieve himself, so he went far away (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mughaffal narrated that :the Prophet prohibited that a man should urinate in his bathing area. And he said: "It will only cause misgivings." [He said:] There are narrations on This topic from "a man from among the Companions of the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "If it were not that it would be difficult on my nation, then I would have ordered them to use the Siwak for each prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah reported that the :Prophet said: "When on of you awakens in the night, then let him not put his hand into the vessel until he has poured water on two times, or three times, for indeed he does not know where his hand has spent the night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Rabah bin Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Sufyan bin Huwaitib narrated from his grandmother, from her father; she said (that he said):"I heard Allah's Messenger saying: there is no Wudu for one who does not mention Allah's Name over it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Rabah Bin Abdur-Rahman bin Abu Sufyan bin Huwaitib narrated :the same from his grandmother the daughter of Sa'eed bin Zaid, from her father, from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salamah bin Qais narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "When you perform Wudu then sniff water in the nose and blow it out, and when you use small stones (to remove filth) then make it odd (numbered) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Zaid said:"1 saw the Prophet rinse his mouth and sniff water in his nose using one hand, he did that thrice (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hassan bin Bilal said:"1 saw Ammar bin Yasir performing Wudu, so he went through his beard (with his hand). It was said to him" - or he said - "1 said: 'You go through your beard?' He said: 'And what is there to prevent me? Indeed I saw Allah's Messenger going through his beard (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(In another narration) Ammar narrated :the same from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uthman bin Affan narrated that :the Prophet would go through his beard (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ar-Rubay' bint Mu'awwidh bin Afra' narrated:"The Prophet wiped his head two times: He began with the rear of his head, then with the front of his head and with both of his ears, outside and Inside of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ar-Rubayy bint Mu'awidh bin Afra narrated that :she saw the Prophet performing Wudu. She said: "He wiped his head, and what is in the front of it and what is in its rear, and his temples and his ears one time (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Zaid narrated that :he saw the Prophet performing Wudu, and that he wiped his head with water that was not left over from his hands (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated:"The Prophet wiped his head and his ears: the outside and the inside of them." ($ahih) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah narrated:"The Prophet performed Wudu; so he washed his face three times, and his hands three times, and wiped his head, and he said: "The ears are part of the head (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Asim bin Laqit bin Sabirah narrated from his father that :the Prophet Muhammad said: "When performing Wudu go between the fingers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "When performing Wudu go between the fingers of your hands and (toes of) your feet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Mustawrid bin Shaddad Al-Fihri said :"I saw the Prophet when he was performing Wudu doing that to the toes on his feet with his pinky (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Protect the heels from the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet performed Wudu one time (for each limb) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Prophet performed Wudu two time (for each limb) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated that:"The Prophet performed Wudu three times (for each limb) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thabit bin Abi Safiyyah said, :"I asked Abu Ja'far: 'Did Jabir narrate to you that: "The Prophet performed Wudu one time each, and two times, and three times?" He said: "Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thabit bin Abi Safiyyah said, :"1 asked Abu Ja'far: 'Did Jabir narrate to you that: "The Prophet performed Wudu one time each?" He said: "Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Zaid narrated that:"The Prophet performed Wudu. So he washed his face three times, and washed his hands two times each, and wiped his head, and washed his feet [two times] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abd Khair related a narration similar to that of Abu Hayyah, :from Ali (no. 48). Except that Abd Khair's version includes the following additions: "When he was finished from his purification, he would take what was left over from his purification with his hand to drink it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Jibril came to me and he said: 'O Muhammad! When you perform wudu then perform Nadh (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qutaibah said in his narration:"For that is the Ribat, that is the Ribat, that is the Ribat" three times (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"Allah's Messenger had a cloth that he would use to dry off with after Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Safinah narrated:"The Prophet would perform Wudu with a Mudd, and he would perform Ghusl with a Sa (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubayy bin Ka'b narrated that :the Prophet said: "Indeed there is a Shaitan for Wudu' who is called "AI-Walahan." So beware of having misgivings about water (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that :"The Prophet would perform wudu for every Salat, whether he was in state of purity or not in a state of purity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It has been related in a narration from Ibn Umar that :the Prophet said: "Whoever performs Wudu while in a state of purity, Allah writes for him on account of it ten good merits (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Maimunah said:"I and Allah's Messenger would perform Ghusl for Janabah from one vessel (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hajib narrated from a man from Banu Ghifar who said:"The Prophet prohibited using the leftover (water) of a woman's Purification (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
A1-Hakim bin Amr AI-Ghifari narrated that:"The Prophet forbade that a man should perform Wudu with the leftover (water) from a woman's purifcation." Or, he said: "from her drinking (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
[Ibn Abbas narrated:"One of the wives of the Prophet performed Ghusl with a bowl. Allah's Messenger wanted to perform Wudu with it, so she said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Indeed I am ]unub.' So he said: 'Indeed, water does not become Junub (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"I heard AlIah's Messenger while he was being asked about water in open areas of the land, and predators and beasts come to it." He said: 'So Allah's Messenger said: 'When the water is two Qullah it does not carry filth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Let none of you urinate [in still water, then perform Wudu with it] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet passed by two graves. He said: 'These two are being punished. And they are not being punished for something major. As for this one, he would not protect himself from his urine. As for this one, he used to spread Namimah (slander) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Qais bin Mihsan narrated:"I entered upon the Prophet with a son of mine who was not yet eating food. He urinated on him, so he called for water which he sprinkled over it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "There no Wudu except for a sound or a smell (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "When one of you is in the Masjid, and he senses wind between his buttocks then he should not exit until he hears a sound or smells an odor (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Indeed Allah does not accept the prayer of one of you when he commits Hadath, until he performs Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The companions of Allah's Messenger would sleep, then stand to pray, They would not perform Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Wudu is (required) from what fire has touched, even if it be a piece of cheese (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib narrated:Allah's Messenger was asked about performing Wudu for camel meat. He said: "Perform Wudu for it." He Was asked about Wudu after eating goat meat. So he said: "Do not perform Wudu for it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Busrah bint Safwan narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever touches his penis, then he is not to pray until he performs Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Busrah narrated :a similar report (as no. 82) from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Busrah narrated that :the Prophet said a similar Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qais bin Talq bin Ali - [and he is] Al-Hanafi narrated from his father, that:the Prophet said: 'Is it other than a piece of his flesh?" Or: "part of him? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Urwah narrated from Aishah that:"The Prophet kissed one of his wives, then he went to the prayer and did not perform Wudu." He (Urwah) said: "I said 'Who was it except you?'" [He said:] "So she laughed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Madan bin Abi Talhah narrated from Abu Ad-Darda that :"Allah's Messenger vomited [so he broke fast] so he performed Wudu." So I met Thawban in a Masjid in Damascus, and I mentioned that to him. He said: 'He told the truth, I poured the water for his Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated:"The Prophet asked me: "What is in your Idawah (water skin)?" I said: "Nabidh." He said: "Dates are wholesome and water is pure." He said: "So he performed Wudu with it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"A man greeted the Prophet (with Salam), and he was urinating, so he did not respond to him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Wash the vessel the dog has drunk from seven times: the first or the last of them with dirt. And when the cat drinks out of it, wash it once (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Khuzaimah bin Thabit narrated:"The Prophet was asked about wiping over the Khuff. So he said: "Three (days) for the traveler, and one day for the resident (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Safwan bin Assal narrated:'When we were traveling, Allah's Messenger would order us not to remove our Khuff for three days and nights, except for Janabah, but not for defecating, urinating, and sleep (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
AI-Mughirah bin Shu'bah narrated:"The Prophet wiped over the Khuff and its bottom (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
AI-Mughirah bin Shu'bah narrated:"I saw the Prophet wiping over the Khuff: on the tops of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Mughirah bin Shu`bah narrated:"The Prophet performed Wudu' and wiped over his socks and sandals (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah narrated from his father:"The Prophet performed Wudu and wiped over the Khuff and 'Imamah." Abu Bakr (one of the narrators) said: "And indeed I heard it from Ibn Al Mughirah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
BilaI narrated:"The Prophet wiped over the Khuff and the Khimar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ubaidah bin Muttammad bin Ammar bin Yasir said:"I asked Jabir bin Abdullah about wiping over the Khuff. He said, 'O my nephew! It is the Sunnah.'" [He said:] "And I asked him about wiping over the lmamah. He said, '[Wipe1 the hair [with water] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Under every hair is sexual impurity so wash (all of) the hair and cleanse the skin (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet would not perform Wudu after the Ghusl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"When the circumcised meets the circumcised, then indeed Ghusl is required. Myself and Allah's Messenger did that, so we performed Ghusl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that :the Prophet said: "When the circumcised meets the circumcised then Ghusl is required (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubayy bin Ka'b narrated:"Water is for water,' was only permitted in the beginning of Islam. Then it was prohibited (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ma'mar narrated :a similar narration (as Hadith no. 110) from, Az-Zuhri, with this chain (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:"Water is for water' is only about the wet dream (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"I asked the Prophet about Al-Madhi. He said: "For Al-Madhi is Wudu, and for AI-Mani is Ghusl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sulaiman bin Yasar narrated from Aishah, that :she washed Mani from the garment of Allah's Messenger (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"Allah's Messenger would sleep while he was Junub, and without touching water (performing Ghusl) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ishaq:There is a similar report (as no. 1I8) narrated via Abu Ishaq (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar narrated that :he asked the Prophet: "Can one of us sleep while he is Junub?" So he replied: "Yes, when he performs Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"Sometimes the Prophet would perform Ghusl from Janabah then come to seek warmth from me, he would hold me and not perform Ghusl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Dharr narrated that :AlIah's Messenger said: "Pure clean earth is a purifier for the Muslim; even if he did not find water for ten years. Then if he finds water, then let him use it (for purification) on his skin. For, that is better (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Adiyy bin Thabit narrated from his father, that :the Prophet said about the Mustahadah that she should: "Leave the Salat for the days of her period which she menstruates in, then perform Ghusl, and perform Wudu for every Salat, and observe Saum and perform Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mu'adhah narrated that :a woman asked Aishah: "Shouldn't one of us make up her prayers the days of her menstruation?" So she said, "Are you one of the Haruriyyah? Indeed we would menstruate, and we were not ordered to make up (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Prophet said: "The menstruating woman does not recite - nor the Junub - anything from the Qur'an." [He said:] There is narration on this topic from Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:"When I would menstruate, Allah's Messenger ordered me to wear a waist wrap, then he would fondle me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Sa'd narrated:I asked the Prophet about eating with a menstruating woman. He said: "Eat with her (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"Allah's Messenger said to me: 'Bring me the Khumrah from the Masjid.' She said: "I said: 'I am menstruating.' He said: 'Indeed your menstruation is not in your hand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever engages in sexual intercourse with a menstruating woman, or a woman in her anus, consults a soothsayer, then he has disbelieved in what was revealed to Muhammad (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :the Prophet said about a man who had sexual intercourse with his wife while she is menstruating: "He should give half a Dinar in charity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :the Prophet said: "When the blood is red then (give) a Dinar. And when the blood is yellow then half Dinar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Asma' bint Abu Bakr narrated that :a woman asked the Prophet about a garment that was touched by some menstrual blood. So Allah's Messenger said: "Remove it, and scrub it, then rinse it and pray in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Salamah narrated:"The time of waiting for Nifas during the time of AIlah's Messenger was forty days. We used to cover our faces with reddish-brown Wars (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"Allah's Messenger would go around to his women with one Ghusl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :the Prophet said: When one of you comes to his wife, then he wants to repeat (it), let him perform Wudu between them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Awf's Umm Walad said, :"I said to Umm Salamah: 'Indeed I am a woman with lengthy hems, and I walk in places of filth.' So she said: 'Allah's Messenger said: "It is purified by what comes after it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ammar bin Yasir narrated that :the Prophet ordered him to perform Tayammum by rubbing his face and two palms (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"Allah's Messenger would recite the Qur'an in all conditions, as long as he was not Junub (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated similar to this (no. 147).:[He said:] There are narrations on this topic from 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud, Ibn Abbas, and Wathilah bin AI-Asqa (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Jibril led me (in Salat)". He mentioned something similar to the Hadith of Ibn Abbas (no. 149) in meaning, but he did not mention: "At the time of Asr the day before (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Rafi bin Khadlj said:"I heard Allah's Messenger saying: 'Perform Fajr at AI-Isfar, for indeed its reward is greater (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I have not seen anyone who hastened Zuhr more than Allah's Messenger nor Abu Bakr, nor Umar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"Allah's Messenger prayed Zuhr when the sun had passed the zenith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "In very hot weather, delay the (Zuhr) prayer until it becomes (a bit) cooler, because the severity of heat is from the raging of the Hell (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Urwah narrated from Aishah:"Allah's Messenger prayed Asr while the sun was (shining) in her chamber, (and) no shadow appeared in her chamber (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Salamah narrated:"Allah's Messenger would hasten Zuhr more than you (people), while you (people) hasten Asr more than him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrator not mentioned:[And I have in my book: "Ali bin Hujr informed me from lsma'il bin Ibrahim, from Ibn Juraij] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Similar narration is reported by Bishr ibn Mu'adh Al-Bari who said that :Isma'il ibn Ulayyah narrated to him from Ibn Juraij. This latter chain is more correct (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salmah bin AI-Akwa narrated:"Allah's Messenger prayed Maghrib when the sun had set and it (the sun) had hidden in the veil (of darkness) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
An-Nu'man bin Bashir said:"I am the most knowledgeable among the people about the prescribed time of this prayer: Allah's Messenger would pray it when the moon set on the third (of the month) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
An-Nu'man bin Bashir said:A similar narration (from another chain linking to) this chain is also reported (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "If it were not that it would be a hardship on my Ummah, then I would have ordered you to delay Isha until the third of the night, or its half (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Barzah narrated:"The Prophet would dislike to sleep before Isha and to talk after it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Al-Khattab narrated:"Allah's Messenger would talk during the night with Abu Bakr about matters concerning the Muslims while I was with them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Farwah - and she was one of those who gave pledge of allegiance to the Prophet - narrated:"The Prophet was asked: 'Which deed is the best?' So he said: 'Salat in the beginning of its time (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin AbI Talib narrated that :the Prophet said to him: 'Ali! Three are not to be delayed: Salat when its time comes, a funeral whet it (a prepared body) is present, and the (marriage of a) single woman when there is an equal for her (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "The beginning of the time for Salat is pleasing to Allah, and the end of its time is pardoned by Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"Allah's Messenger did not pray any Salat at the end of its time two times, until Allah took him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever misses the Asr prayer, then it is as if he was robbed of his family and his property (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Qatadah narrated:"They asked the Prophet about when they sIept past the Salat. He said: 'There is no negligence in sleep, negligence is only while one is awake. So when one of you forgets a Salat, or sleeps through it, then let him pray it when he remembers it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas (bin Malik) narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever forgets a Salat then he is to pray it when he remembers it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Salatul-Wusta is the Asr prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Smurah bin Jundub narrated that :the Prophet said: "Salatul-wusta is the Asr prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet only performed the two rak'ah (units of prayer) after Asr because some wealth came to him which distracted him from the two rak'ah after Zuhr, so he prayed them after Asr, then he did not repeat that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mughaffal narrated that :the Prophet said: "Between every two calls (to prayer) there is a Salat for whoever wills (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever catches a Rak'ah of Subh before the sun has risen, then he has caught Subh. Whoever catches a Rak'ah of Asr before the sun has set, then he has caught Asr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas said:"Allah's Messenger combined the Zuhr and Asr (prayers), and the Maghrib and Isha (prayers) in Al-Madinah, without being in a state of fear, nor due to rain (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever combines two prayers without any excuse then he has committed something from the major sins (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Mahdhurah narrated that :Allah's Messenger sat with him and taught him the Adhan word for word. Ibrahim said, "It is the same as our Adhan." Bishr said: "So I said to him, 'Repeat it to me.' So he described the Adhan with At-Tarjl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Mahdhurah narrated that :the Prophet taught him the Adhan with nineteen phrases, and the Iqamah with seventeen phrases (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"Bilal was ordered to make the phrases of the Adhan even, and the phrases of the Iqamah odd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Zaid said:"Allah's Messenger would say each phrase of the call (for prayer) two times, for the Adhan and the Iqamah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir [bin Abdullah] narrated:(Another chain for) a similar narration (as no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "None should call the Adhan except for one with Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Shihab narrated that :Abu Hurairah said: "None should call (for the prayer except for one with Wudu) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Samurah narrated:The Mu'adh-dhin of Allah's Messenger would wait and he would not call the Iqamah until he saw the Allah's Messenger had come out, he would call the Iqamah when he saw him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated from his father (Ibn Umar) that :the Prophet said: "Indeed Bilal calls the Adhan in the night, so eat and drink until you hear the Adhan of Ibn Umm Maktum (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ash-Sha'tha said:"A man exited the Masjid after the Adhan for Asr had been called. So Abu Hurairah said: 'As for this person, he has indeed disobeyed Abul Qasim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Malik bin Al-Huwairih said:"A cousin of mine and I arrived as guests of Allah's Messenger. He said to us: 'When you travel then call the Adhan and Iqamah and let the eldest of you lead the prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet said: 'Whoever calls the Adhan for seven years, seeking reward for it, salvation from the Fire is written for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "The Imam is answerable and the Mu'adh-dhin is entrusted. O Allah! Guide the Imams and pardon the Mu'adh-dhins (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whenyou hear the call (to prayer) then say the similar to what the Mu'adh-dhin says (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uthman bin Abi Al-As narrated:"Indeed, amount the last (of orders) Allah's Messenger ordered me with was to employ a Mu'adh-dhin who would not take a wage for his Adhan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "The supplication made between the Adhan and Iqamah is not rejected (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"On the Night of Isra, fifty prayers were made obligatory upon the Prophet. Then it was decreased until it was made five. Then it was called out: 'O Muhammad! Indeed My Word does not change; these five prayers will be recorded for you as fifty (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "The five prayers, and Al-Jumuah (the Friday prayer) to Al-Jumuah are atonement for what is between them, as long as the major sins have not been committed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Salat in congregation is twenty-seven degrees more virtuous than a man's Salat alone (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Indeed a man's Salat in the congregation is increased by twenty five rewards over his Salat alone (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "I was about to order my boys to collect bundles of firewood, then order Salat to be held, then burn (the homes) of the people who did not attend the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mujahid said:"Ibn Abbas was asked about a man who fasted during the day and stood (in prayers) during the night, but he did not attend the Friday prayer nor congregational prayer. He replied: 'He is in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated:"A man came when Allah's Messenger had already prayed, so he said: 'Which of you will give some reward to this person?' So a man stood to pray with him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jundub bin Sufyan narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever prays the Subh then he is under the protection of Allah's covenant, so do not be treacherous with Allah in his covenant (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Buraidah Al-Aslami narrated that :the Prophet said: "Give glad tiding to those who walk to the Masajid in the dark; of a complete light on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "The best rows for the men are the first of them, and the worst are the last of them. And the best rows for the women are the last of them, and the worst are the first of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrator not mentioned:And the Prophet said: "If the people knew what (reward) is in the call (Adhan) and the first row, and they found no other way to get that except drawing lots, then they would draw lots (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrator not mentioned:A Similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
An-Nu'man bin Bashir said:"Allah's Messenger would straighten our lines. One day he came out and saw a man whose chest was protruding from the people, so he said: 'You must straighten your lines, or Allah will cause disagreement to occur among your faces (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah (Ibn Masud) narrated that :the Prophet said: "Let those among you with understanding and reason be close to me, then those after them, then those after them. And do not separate or dissention will occur among your hearts, and beware of the commotion of the markets (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdul-Hamid bin Mahmud said:"We prayed behind one of the Amirs, the people compelled us such that we prayed between two columns. When we had prayed, Anas bin Malik said: 'We would be prevented from this during the time of Allah's Messenger (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Wabisah bin Ma'bad narrated:"A man prayed alone behind the row s the Prophet ordered him to repeat the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"I prayed with the Prophet one night. I stood at his left, so Allah's Messenger took me by my head, from behind me, to put me on his right (side) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah bin Jundub narrated:"Allah's Messenger ordered us that when we were three, then one of us should stand forward (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "When one of you leads the people in prayer then let him be brief, for indeed here are among them the young and the old, the weak and the ill. When one of you prays alone, then let him pray as he wishes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas [bin Malik] narrated:"Allah's Messenger was among the lightest of people in Salat with its completeness (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "the key to Salat is the purification, its Tahrim is the Takbir, and its Tahlilis the Taslim, and there is no Salat for one who did not recite Al-Hamd and a Surah in the obligatory (prayer) or other prayers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"When Allah's Messenger performed the Takbir for Salat he would spread his fingers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"When Allah's Messenger would enter the Salat he would raise his hands while they were extended (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever performs Salat for Allah for forty days in congregation, catching the first Takbir, two absolutions are written for him: absolution from the Fire, and absolution from the Fire, and absolution from hypocrisy (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet would open his Salat with (Bismillahir-Rahmanir-Rahim) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"Allah's Messenger, Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman opened the Salat with (Al-Hamdu-lillahi rabbil-alamin) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubadah bin As-Samil narrated that :the Prophet said: "There is no Salat for the one who does not recite Fatihatil-Kitab (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Wa'il bin Hujr narrated:"I heard the Prophet recite: (Not (the way) of those who earned Your anger, nor those who went astray) and he said: 'Amin.' And he stretched it out with his voice (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Wa'il bin Hujr who narrated it from :the Prophet, and it is similar to the narrations of Sufyan from Salamah bin Kuhail (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said "When the Imam says 'Amin' then (all of you) say 'Amin.' For whoever's 'Amin' concurs with the 'Amin' of the angels, then his past sins will be forgiven (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qabisah bin Hulb narrated from :his father who said: "Allah's Messenger lead us in prayer and hold his left hand with his right (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated:"Allah's Messenger would say the Takbir for every lowering and raising, standing and sitting, and (so did) Abu Bakr and Umar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"Allah's Messenger would say the Takhir while he was going down (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated:Same as 255 (above) with a different chain (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Alqamah narrated that :Abdullah bin Mas'ud said: "Shall I not demonstrate the Salat of Allah's Messenger to you?" Then he offered Salat and he did not raise his hands except while saying the first Takbir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Abdur-Rahman As-Sulami said:"Umar bin Al-Khattab [may Allah be pleased with him] said to us: 'The knees are the Sunnah for you, so hold the knees (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'd bin Abi Waqas said:"We would do that, but then we were prohibited from it, and we were ordered to put our hands on our knees (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another similar narration) This Hadith has been narrated from Hudhaifah :from another route: "That he performed Salat during the night with the Prophet" and he mentioned the Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib narrated:"The Prophet prohibited wearing Qassi, and that which is dyed with safflower, and from the gold ring, and from reciting the Quran while bowing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Mas'ud Al-Ansari [Al-Badri] narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "The Salat is not acceptable if a man is not at rest - meaning his back - while bowing and prostrating (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Wa'il bin Hujr narrated:"I saw Allah's Messenger when he prostrated placing his knees (on the ground) before his hands, and when he got up, he raised his hands before his knees (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said; "Is it that one of you intends to kneel in his Salat with the kneeling of the camel? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Humaid As-Sa'idi narrated:"When the Prophet would prostrate, he placed his nose and his forehead on the ground, and he held his forearms away from his sides, and he placed his hands parallel to his shoulders (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ishaq narrated:"I said to Al-Bara bin Azib: 'Where would the Prophet place his face when he prostrated?' He said: 'Between his hands (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Abbas bin Abdul-Muttalib narrated that he heard :Allah's Messenger Saying: "When the worshipper prostrates with him: His face, his hands, his knees, and his feet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet ordered that one prostrate on seven bones and that he not gather his hair nor his garment (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that :the Prophet said: "When one of you prostrates, then let him be balanced, and let him not lay his forearms down like the lying of the dog (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Be balanced in the prostration, and let one of you not spread his forearms (on the ground) in the Salat like the spreading of the dog (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amir bin Sa'd [bin Abi Waqqas] narrated from his father:"The Prophet ordered placing the hands (on the ground) keeping the feet erect. (by resting feet on the toes and making the tips of the toes facing the Qiblah) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain that) Amir bin Sa'd narrated:"The Prophet ordered placing the hands (on the ground)." And he mentioned in it: "From his father (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib narrated:"The Salat of Allah's Messenger (was such that) when he bowed, and when he raised his head from bowing, and when he prostrated, and when he raised his head from prostration it (all) was nearly the same (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib narrated:(Another chain) which is similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara said:"When we performed Salat behind Allah's Messenger, he would raise his head from bowing, and no man among us would bend his back until Allah's Messenger prostrated, then we prostrated (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"Allah's Messenger said to me: 'O Ali! I love for you what I love for myself, and I dislike for you what I dislike for myself. Do not squat between prostrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Tawus said:"We asked Ibn Abbas about squatting (sitting) on the heels. He said: 'It is the Sunnah.' We said: 'We think that it is difficult for a man.' He said: 'Rather, it is Sunnah of your Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"Between the two prostrations, the Prophet would say: (Allahummaghfir li, warhamni, wajburni, wahdini, warzuqni). 'O Allah! Pardon me, have mercy on me, help me, guide me, and grant me sustenance (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:(Another chain) which is similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"[Some of] the Companions of the Prophet complained [to the Prophet] about the hardship of the prostration on them, when they were so spread out, so he said: 'Use your knees (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Malik bin Al-Huwairith Al-Laithi narrated that he saw :Allah's Messenger performing Salat. When he was in an odd number of his Salat, he would not get up until he had sat completely (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"Allah's Messenger would get up during his Salat on the tips of his feet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas`ud said:"It is from the Sunnah to say the Tashahhud quietly (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Wa'il bin Hujr said:"I arrived in Al-Madinah and I said, 'Let me look at the Salat of Allah's Messenger.' When he sat - meaning for At-Tashah-hud - he spread his left foot, and placed his left hand - meaning on his left thigh - and held his right foot erect (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"When the Prophet would sit during the Salat, he would place his right hand on his knee, and raise his finger, the one that is next to the [right] thumb, supplicating with it, and his left hand was spread flat on his left knee (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated:"The Prophet would say the Salam from his right and from his left (saying): (As-Salamu alaikum wa rahmatullah, as-Salamu alaikum wa rahmatullah) 'Peace be upon you, and Allah's mercy. Peace be upon you, and Allah's mercy (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"Allah's Messenger would say one Taslim for the Salat while facing forward and turning to his right side a little (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"Hadhf the Salam is a Sunnah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:(Another chain) which is similar, but he said: (Tabarakta ya dhal-jalali wal-ikram) "Blessed are You, O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qabisah bin Hulb narrated that his father said:"When Allah's Messenger would lead us in Salat he would turn (to leave) from both sides, on his right and on his left (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) that Muhammad bin Amir bin Ata narrated from Abu Humaid As-Saidi,:he (Muhammad) said: "I heard him saying - while he was among ten of the Companions of the Prophet, one of whom was Abu Qatadah bin Ribi (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qutbah bin Malik narrated:"I heard Allah's Messenger reciting for Fajr: And tall date palms in the first Rak'ah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Samurah narrated:"For Zuhr and Asr, Allah's Messenger would recite: By the heavens, holding the Buruj and (By the heavens and At-Tariq) and similar to them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Al-Fadl narrated:"Allah's Messenger came out to us with his head bandaged from his illness. He prayed Maghrib, reciting (Surat) Al-Mursalat." [She said:] "He did not pray it again until he met Allah the Might and Sublime (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Buraidah narrated that his father (Buraidah) said:"Allah's Messenger would recite: By the sun and its brightness, or similar Surah for the latter Isha (prayer) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib narrated:"The Prophet would recite: By the fig and the olive for Isha (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Nu'aim Wahb bin Kaisan narated that he heard Jabir bin 'Abdullah saying:"Whoever prayed a Rak'ah in which he did not recite Umm Al-Qur'an, then he did not pray except if he was behind an Imam." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Qatadah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "When one of you comes to the Masjid, then let him perform two Rak'ah before sitting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "All of the earth is a Masjid except for the graveyard and the washroom (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uthman bin Affan narrated that :he heard Allah's Messenger say: "Whoever builds a Masjid for (the sake of) Allah, then Allah will build a similar house for him in Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It has been related that :the Prophet said: "Whoever builds a Masjid for (the sake of) Allah, be it small or large, then Allah will build a house for him in Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbbas narrated:"Allah's Messenger cursed the women who visit the graves, and those who use them as Masajid and put torches on them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"We would sleep in the Masjid during the time of Allah's Messenger and we were young men (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Al-Abrad the freed slave of Banu Khatmah narrated that he heard Usaid bin Zuhair Al-Ansari - and he was one of the Companions of the Prophet - narrated that :the Prophet said: "The Salat in Masjid Quba is like Umrah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Salat is this Masjid of mine is better than a thousand Salat in another, except for Masjid Al-Haram (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "A mount is not saddled (for a journey) except to three Masajid: Al-Masjid Al-Haram, this Masjid of mine, and Masjid Al-Aqsa." [Abu `Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "When the Iqamah is called for Salat do not come to it rushing, rather come to it walking, and while you have tranquility. What you catch of it then pray it, and what you missed of it, then complete it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain with a similar narration) from Abu Hurairah :[from the Prophet]. And this is more correct than the Hadith of Yazid bin Zurai. (no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain with a similar narration) from Abu Hurairah, :from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"Allah's Messenger performed Salat on a Khumrah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated:"The Prophet performed Salat on a Hasir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"Allah's Messenger used to mingle with us such that he said to my younger brother: 'O Abu Umair! What did the Nughair do?'" He (Anas) said: "A Bisat of ours would be sprinkled (with water) to perform Salat on (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mu'adh ibn Jabal narrated:"The Prophet liked to perform Salat in Al-Hitan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Muba bin Talhah narrated from his father (Talhah) that :Allah's Messenger said: "When one of you placed something like the post (handle) of the camel saddle in front of him, then let him perform Salat and not concern himself with who passes beyond that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Abi Salamah narrated that he saw :Allah's Messenger performing Salat in the house of Umm Salamah wrapped in one garment (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar said:"They were bowing during the Subh (Fajr) Prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "What is between the east and the west is Qiblah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:(Another chain with a similar narration) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain narrating that) Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "What is between the east and the west is Qiblah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet prohibited Salat from being performed in seven places: the dung heap, the slaughtering area, the graveyard, the commonly used road, the wash area, in the area that camels rest at, and above the House of Allah (the Ka'bah) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:(Another chain with a similar narration) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Perform Salat in sheep pens but do not perform Salat in the camels' resting area (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Abu Hurairah, :from the Prophet and it is the same or similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Prophet would perform Salat in sheep pens (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"The Prophet dispatched me for something he needed. I came to him while he was performing Salat on his mount, heading east, he made the prostrations lower than the bowing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet performed Salat towards his she-camel, or his mount, and he would perform Salat while on his mount, whichever direction it was facing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas conveyed that :the Prophet said: "When supper is present and the Iqamah for Salat has been called, then begin with supper (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:the Prophet said: "When the supper is presented and the Iqamah is called for Salat, then begin with the supper (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "When one of you is sleepy and he is performing Salat, then let him lie down until the sleep is gone from him. For when one of you performs Salat while he is sleepy, perhaps he wants to seek forgiveness but he curses himself (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"Allah's Messenger cursed three people: A man who leads people (in Salat) while they dislike him, a woman who spends a night while her husband is angry with her, and a man who hears: 'Hayya Alal Falah (come to success)' then does not respond (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Al-Harith Al-Mustaliq said:"It used to be said that the people with the worst punishment [on the Day of Judgment] are two: A woman who disobeyed her husband, and a people's Imam whom they dislike (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "There are three whose Salat would not rise up beyond their ears: The runaway slave until he returns, a woman who spends a night while her husband is angry with her, and a people's Imam whom they dislike (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"Allah's Messenger performed Salat behind Abu Bakr, during the illness from which he died, and he was sitting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"Allah's Messenger performed Salat during his illness behind Abu Bakr while seated, wrapped in a garment (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Suhaib narrated:"I passed by Allah's Messenger (S) while he was performing Salat, so I said greeted him with Salam, and he returned it by making signals." He said: "I do not know except that he said: 'He indicated with his finger (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"I said to Bilal: 'How did the Prophet (S) reply to them when they gave him Salams and he was performing Salat?' He said: 'He would motion with his hand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:Allah's Messenger said: "The Tasbih is for the men and clapping is for the women (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Yawning in prayer (salah) is from the Shaitan, so when one of you yawns then let him suppress (it) as much as possible (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that:Allah's Messenger said: "Indeed I hear the crying of a small boy while I am in Salat, so I shorten it in fear that his mother may be tormented (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:Allah's Messenger said: "The Salat of a women who has reached the age of menstruation is not accepted without a Khimar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"Allah's Messenger (S) prohibited As-Sadl in the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Dharr narrated that :the Prophet (S) said: "When one of you stands for Salat then he should not smoothen the pebbles, for indeed it is mercy that he is facing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mu'aiqib narrated:"I asked Allah's Messenger (S) about smoothening the pebbles during Salat. He said: 'If you must do so, then let it be only once (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Salamah narrated:"The Prophet (S) saw a boy of ours - called Aflah - blowing when he prostrated. So he said: 'O Aflah! Put your face in the dirt (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) in which Abu Hamzah narrated:"A boy of ours named Rabah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Prophet (S) prohibited than a man to pray with his hands on his hip (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ka'b bun Ujrah narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "When one of you performs Wudu and does so well, then he leaves intending to go to the Masjid, then let him not intertwine his fingers, for indeed he is in Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"It was said to the Prophet (S): 'Which Salat is most virtuous?' He said: 'That with the longest Qunut (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"Allah's Messenger (S) ordered killing the two black things in Salat; the snake and the scorpion (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Masud narrated:"The Prophet (S) prayed five (Rakah) for Zuhr, so it was said to him: 'Has the prayer been added to, or have you merely forgotten?' So he (S) performed two prostrations after he had said the Salam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah (bin Masud) narrated:"The Prophet (S) performed two prostrations for As-Sahw after talking (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Prophet (S) performed two prostrations after the Salam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Al-Muhallab narrated from Imran bin Husain that :the Prophet (S) led them in Salat he forgot (something) so he performed two prostrations, then the Tashah-hud, then the Salam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "Indeed the Shaitan comes to one of you in his Salat confusing him until he does now know how much he has prayed. When one of you experiences that then let him perform two prostrations while sitting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'eed bin Yazid Abu Maslamah said:"I said to Anas bin Malik: 'Would Allah's Messenger (S) perform Salat wearing his sandals?' He said: 'Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib narrated:"The Prophet (S) would perform the Qunut in the Subh and Maghrib prayers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Malik Al-Ashjai narrated:"I said to my father: 'O my father! You offered Salat behind Allah's Messenger (S), Abu Bakr, Umar, Uthman, and Ali bin Abi Talib here in Al-Kufah for about five years. Did they say the Qunut?' He said: 'It is a newly invented matter my son (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
There is another narration from Abu Malik:There exists another narration from Abu Malik with similar meaning but with different chain (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Sabrah bin Ma'bad al-Juhni) narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "Teach the boy Salat when he is seven years old, and beat him (if he does not pray) when he is ten (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "When he commits Hadath - meaning a man - and he is sitting in the end of his Salat before saying the Taslim, then his Salat is acceptable (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"We were with the Prophet (S) on a journey when it started to rain on us, so the Prophet (S) said: 'Whoever wishes, let him perform Salat in his place (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah narrated:"Allah's Messenger (S) performed Salat until his feet were swollen, so it was said to him: 'You burden yourself like this, while your past and future sins have been forgiven?' He said: 'Shouldn't I be a grateful worshipper? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that Allah's Messenger (S) said:"Whoever is regular with twelve Rak'ah of Sunnah (prayer), Allah will build a house for him in Paradise: Four Rak'ah before Zuhr, two Rak'ah after it, two Rak'ah after Maghrib, two Rak'ah after Isha, and two Rak'ah before Fajr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that :Allah's Messenger (S) said: "The two Rak'ah of Fajr are better than the world and what is in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"I watched the Prophet (S) for a month. In the two Rak'ah before Fajr he would recite: Say: "O you disbelievers!" and Say: "Allah is One (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"When Allah's Messenger (S) prayed the two Rak'ah (before) Fajr if he needed something from me he would talk to me, if not, he would go to Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "There is no Salat after Al-Fajr (begins) except two prostrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "When one of you prays the two Rak'ah of Fajr then let him lay down on his right (side) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "When the Iqamah has been called for the Salat then there is no Salat except the obligatory (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "Whoever did not pray the two Rak'ah (before) Fajr then let him pray them after the sun has risen (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"The Prophet (S) would pray four Rak'ah before Az-Zuhr and two Rak'ah after it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"I prayed two Rak'ah with the Prophet (S) before Az-Zuhr and two Rak'ah after it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"When the Prophet (S) would not perform the four Rak'ah before Az-Zuhr he would pray them after it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Habibah narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "Whoever prays four before Az-Zuhr and four after, Allah makes him prohibited for the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Habibah the wife of the Prophet (S) narrated that:She heard Allah's Messenger (S) saying: "Whoever maintains four Rak'ah before Az-Zuhr and four after it, Allah makes him prohibited for the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"Allah's Messenger (S) would pray four Rak'ah before Al-Asr separating between them with At-Taslim upon the angels that are close (to Allah) and those who follow them among the Muslims and the believers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :The Prophet (S) said: "May Allah have mercy upon a man who prays four before Al-Asr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated:"I can not enumerate (how many times) I heard Allah's Messenger (S) reciting - in the two Rak'ah after Al-Maghrib and the two Rak'ah before Salatul-Fajr with: Say: "O you disbelievers!" and Say: "He is Allah the One (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"I prayed two Rak'ah after Al-Maghrib with the Prophet (S) in his house (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar :has a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "Whoever prays six Rak'ah after Al-Maghrib, and he does not speak about anything between them, then they will be counted for him as twelve years of worship (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Shaqiq said:"I asked Aishah about the Salat of Allah's Messenger (S). She said: 'He would pray four Rak'ah before Az-Zuhr and two Rak'ah after it, and two after Al-Maghrib, and two Rak'ah after Al-Isha, and two before Al-Fajr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:The Prophet (S) said: "Salat in the night is two by two. So when you fear the dawn (is near) then make it odd by one, and make that the last of your Salat odd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:Allah's Messenger (S) said: "The most virtuous fasting after the month of Ramadan is that of Allah's month of Al-Muharram. And the most virtuous Salat after the obligatory is the night prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"Allah's Messenger (S) would pray eleven Rak'ah at night, making them off with one. When he finished them he would lay down on his right side (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrator mot mentioned:Another chain with similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet (S) would pray thirteen Rak'ah at night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet (S) would pray nine Rak'ah in the night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrator not mentioned:(Another chain with similar narration) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"When the Prophet (S) did not pray at night because he was prevented from it by sleep or being sleepy then he would pray twelve Rak'ah during the daytime (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet (S) stood (in prayer) with an Ayah from the Qur'an at night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zaid bin Thabit narrated that:The Prophet (S) said: "The most virtuous prayer of yours is in your homes, except for the obligatory (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :The Prophet (S) said: "Offer Salat in your homes and do not turn them into graves (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Kharijab bin Hudhafah narrated:"Allah's Messenger came out to us and he said: 'Indeed Allah has assisted you with a Salat that is better for you than red camels: Al-Witr which Allah made for you between the Isha prayer till Al-Fajr has begun (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali said:"Al-Witr is not incumbent like your obligatory prayers, but it is a Sunnah of Allah's Messenger who said: "Indeed Allah is Witr (One), and He loves Al-Witr, so perform Al-Witr O people of the Qur'an (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sufyan Ath-Thawri and others reported from Abu Ishaq, from Asim bin Damrah, that :Ali said: "Al-Witr is not incumbent like the status of the obligatory prayers, but it is a Sunnah which Allah's Messenger practiced (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Masruq narrated that :he asked Aishah about the Witr of the Prophet. She said: "He would perform Witr during all of the night; (either) its beginning, its middle, or its end. So when he died, his Witr ended, during the approachof As-Sahar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The night prayer of Allah's Messenger was thirteen Rak'ah, five of which were his Witr, not sitting in any of them except at the end of them. When the Mu'adh-dhin called the Adhan he would stand to perform two light (Rak'ah) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"Allah's Messenger would recite during Al-Witr: "Glorify the Name of your Lord the Most High' and, 'Say: O you disbelievers!' and, 'Say: Allah is One,' in each Rak'ah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever sleeps past Al-Witr or forgets it, then let him pray it when he remembers it or when he awakens (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zaid bin Aslam narrated from his father that:the Prophet said: "Whoever sleeps past his Al-Witr then let him pray it in the morning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Prophet said: "Precede the morning with Al-Witr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Perform Witr before the morning comes upon you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "When Fajr begins, then every Salat of the night and Al-Witr have gone, so perform Al-Witr before Fajr begins (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qais bin Talq bin Ali narrated that :his father said: I heard Allah's Messenger saying: "There are no two Witr in one night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Salamah narrated:"The Prophet would pray two Rak'ah after Al-Witr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'eed bin Yasar narrated:"I was with Ibn Umar on a journey and I fell behind him. He said: 'Where were you?' I said: 'I prayed Al-Witr.' He said: 'Is there not a good exampled for you in Allah's Messenger? I saw Allah's Messenger performing Al-Witr on his mount (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever prays twelve Rak'ah of Ad-Duha, Allah will build a castle made of gold for him in Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jubair narrated from Abu Ad-Darda, or Abu Dharr, that :Allah's Messenger narrated that Allah, Blessed and Most High said: "Son of Adam: Perform four Rak'ah for Me in the beginning of the day it will suffice you for the latter part of it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever continuously performs the two Rak'ah of Ad-Duha his sins will be forgiven, even if they be like the foam of the sea (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated:"The Prophet would pray Ad-Duha until we would say: 'He will not leave it.' And he would leave it until we would say: 'He will not pray it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin As-Sa'ib narrated:"Allah's Messenger would pray four (Rak'ah) after the Zawal of the sun before Az-Zuhr. He said: 'It is an hour in which the gates of the heavens are opened, and I love that a righteous deed should be raised up for me in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "The person closest to me on the Day of Judgement is the one who sent the most Salat upon me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever sends Salat upon me, Allah sends Salat upon him ten times (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Al-Khattab narrated:"Indeed the supplication stops between the heavens and the earth. Nothing of it is raised up until you send Salat upon your Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Al-Khattab [may Allah be pleased with him] said:"No one should sell in our markets except one who has understanding in the religion (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:the Prophet said: "The best day that the sun has risen upon is Friday. On it Adam was created, on it he entered Paradise, and on it, he was expelled from it. And the Hour will not be established except on Friday (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :the Prophet said: "Seek out the hour that is hoped for on Friday after Asr until the sun has set (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that he heard :the Prophet saying: "Whoever comes on Friday, then let him perform Ghusl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated:(Another chain) from Abdullah bin Umar from the Prophet which is similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain reaching to Az-Zuhri) with this Hadith.Malik reported this Hadith from Az-Zuhri, from Salim who said:"Umar [bin al-Khattab] was giving a Khutbah on Friday." And he mentioned this Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aws bin Aws narrated:"Allah's Messenger said to me: 'Whoever performs Ghusl on Friday, and bathes completely, and goes early, arriving early, gets close and listens and is silent, there will be for him in every step he take the reward of a year of fasting and standing (in prayer) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah bin Jundah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever performs Wudu on Friday, then he will receive the blessing, and whoever performs Ghusl then Ghusl is more virtuous (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Al-Ja'd - meaning Ad-Damri - narrated, and he was a Companion according to the claim of Muhammad bin Amr:"Allah's Messenger said: 'Whoever neglects the Friday prayer three times (in a row) without an excuse, then Allah sets a seal upon his heart (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thuwair narrated from a man among the people of Quba, from his father, who was one of the Companions of the Prophet, that :he said: "The Prophet ordered us to attend the Friday prayer in Quba (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Prophet would pray the Friday prayer when the sun was declining (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Anas, :from the Prophet, similarly (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet would give the Khutbah next to the trunk of a date palm. When he [the Prophet] began using the Minbar the trunk cried out for him until he came to it and held it, so it became quiet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet would give a Khutbah on Friday, then sit, then stand and give (another) Khutbah." He said: "Similar to what they do today (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Samurah narrated:"I would pray with the Prophet, and his prayer was moderate, and his Khutbah was moderate (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Safwan bin Ya'la bin Umayyah narrated from his father who said:"I heard the Prophet reciting, when on the Minbar: And they will cry: "O Malik (keeper of Hell)!"." [He said:] There are narrations on this topic from Abu Hurairah and Jabir bin Samurah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated:"When Allah's Messenger descending the Minbar he would face our direction (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated:"The Prophet was delivering a Khutbah on Friday when a man came. The Prophet said: 'Have you prayed?' He said no. So he said: 'Then stand and pray.'" Abu Eisa said: This Hadith is Hasan Sahih [It is the most correct thing about this topic] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever said: 'Be quiet' while the Imam is giving the Khutbah then he has committed Laghw (useless activity) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Ma'adh bin Anas al Jahni narrated from his father that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever steps over the necks of the people on Friday, he has taken a bridge to Hell (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Ma'adh narrated from his father:"The Prophet prohibited Al-Habwah on Friday while the Imam is delivering the Khutbah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
As-Sa'ib bin Yazid narrated:"The Adhan during the time of Allah's Messenger, Abu Bakr, and Umar was when the Imam came out, [and when] the Iqamah was called for the Salat. Then Uthman [may Allah be pleased with him] added a third call at Az-Zawra (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"Allah's Messenger would talk as necessary after descending from the Minbar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"I saw the Prophet, after the Iqamah was called for Salat, talking to a man who was standing between him and the Qiblah, he did not stop talking, and I saw some of them getting sleepy from his lengthy standing the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"For the Fajr prayer on Friday, Allah's Messenger would recite: Alif Lam Mem (which is) revealed in (Surat) As-Sajdah and, Has there not been over man (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated from his father:"The Prophet would pray two Rak;ah after the Friday prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Nafi narrated about Ibn Umar:"When he prayed the Friday prayer, he left and prayed two prostrations (Rak'ah) in his house. Then he said: 'Allah's Messenger would do this (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "Whoever among you is to pray after the Friday prayer, then let him pray four (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever catches a Rak'ah of the Salat then he has caught the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Sa'd narrated:"We would not have lunch during the time of Allah's Messenger, nor would we have a siesta, until after the Friday prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Prophet said: "When one of you becomes sleepy during the Friday prayer, then let him move from where he is sitting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib narrated that :Allah's Messenger said: "It is a duty for the Muslims, that they perform Ghusl on Friday, and that each of them wear some of his family's perfume. If he does not find any, then water is a perfume for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib narrated:(Another route for the same chain) similar in meaning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib narrated:"It is from the SUnnah to leave for the Eid walking, and to eat something before leaving (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"Allah's Messenger, Abu Bakr, and Umar would pray during the two Eid before the Khutbah, then they would give the Khutbah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Samurah narrated:"I prayed the two Eid prayers with the Prophet - not one time, not two times - without and Adhan nor an Iqamah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubaidullah bin Abdullah bin Utbah narrated:"Umar bin Al-Khattab asked Abu Waqid Al-Laithi what Allah's Messenger would recite during Al-Fitr and Al-Adha, so he said: 'He would recite: Qaf, By the Glorious Quran and the Hour has drawn near, and the moon has been cleft asunder (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubaidullah bin Abdullah bin Utbah:There is a another chain with similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Kathir bin Abdullah narrated from this father, from his grandfather:"The Prophet said the Takbir in the first (Rak'ah) sever (times) before the recitation, and in the last, five (times) before the recitation (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet went out on the day of Al-Fitr, so he prayed two Rak'ah, then he did not pray before it nor after it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr bin Hafs - and he is Ibn Umar bin Sa'd bin Abi Waqas - narrated about Ibn Umar, that:"He went out on the day of Eid, and he did not pray before it nor after it. He mentioned that the Prophet did so (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
There is a similar narration from Umm Atiyyah :with another chain (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"When Allah's Messenger would go out on the day of Eid by one route, he would return by another (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Buraidah narrated from his father:"The Prophet would not leave on the Day of Fitr until he ate, and he would not eat on the day of Adha until he prayed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Prophet would have a breakfast of dates on the Day of Fitr before leaving for the Musalla (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"I traveled with the Prophet, Abu Bakr, Umar, and Uthman; they would pray Zuhr and Asr as two Rak'ah and two Rak'ah, not praying before them nor after them." And Ibn Umar said: "If I was going to pray before it or after it then I would pray it complete (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"We prayed Zuhr as four with the Prophet in Al-Madinah, and Asr as two Rak'ah in Dhil-Hulaifah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet went from Al-Madinah to Makkah, not fearing anyone except Allah the Lord of the worlds, and he prayed two Rak'ah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Yahya bin Abi Ishaq Al-Hadrami narrated :that Anas bin Malik said: "We went with the Messenger of Allah from Al-Madinah to Makkah, and he prayed two Rak'ah." He said: "I said to Anas: 'How long did Messenger of Allah stay in Makkah?' He said: 'Ten (days) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah traveled on a journey and he prayed two Rak'ah for nineteen days." Ibn Abbas said: "So when we would stay somewhere for nineteen (days) we would pray two Rak'ah , and if we stayed longer than that we would complete the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib said:"I accompanied the Messenger of Allah on eighteen journeys, and I did not see him leave the two Rak'ah when the sun waned before Zuhr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"I prayed Zuhr with the Prophet on a journey as two Rak'ah, and two Rak'ah after it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) Qutaibah narrated :this Hadith to us, meaning the Hadith of Mu'adh (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abbad bin Tamim narrated from his uncle:"The Messenger of Allah went out with the people to seek rain. So he led them in prayer for two Rak'ah, reciting aloud in them, turning his upper wrap around, raising his hands, requesting rain, and facing the Qiblah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umair, the freed slave of Abi Al-Lahm narrated from Abi Al-Lahm that :he saw the Messenger of Allah at Ahjar Az-Zait, supplicating for rain, and he was raising his hands in supplication (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Hisham bin Ishaq bin Abdullah bin Kinanah, from his father, :and he mentioned a similar narration and added: "with humility" to it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet prayed during the eclipse. He recited, then bowed, then recited, then bowed, then recited, then bowed. (three times), then he performed two prostrations, and the next one (Rak'ah) was the same (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah bin Jundah narrated:"The Prophet led us in prayer during an eclipse; we did not hear his voice (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet prayed the eclipse payer, and he recited aloud in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It was reported by Malik from Yazid bin Ruman, :from Salih bin Khawwat, from someone who prayed Salat Al-Khawf with the Prophet, and he mentioned a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ad-Darda narrated:"I performed eleven prostrations (of recitation) with the Messenger of Allah, among them was that which is in Surat An-Najm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain in which) Abu Ad-Darda narrated:"I performed eleven prostrations with the Messenger of Allah, among them was that which is in Surat An-Najm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Tariq bin Abdullah Al-Muharibi narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "When you are in Salat then do not spit on your right, but behind you or toward your left, or under your left foot (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "To spit in the Masjid is a sin, and burying it is its atonement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"We prostrated with the Messenger of Allah in: 'Read! In the Name of your Lord' and 'When the heaven is split asunder (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain in which) Abu Hurairah narrated :from the Prophet similarly (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah prostrated for it - meaning (in Surat) An-Najm - and so did the Muslims, the idolaters, the Jinns, and the people (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zaid bin Thabit narrated:"I recited Surat An-Najm to the Messenger of Allah, and he did not prostrate for it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"I saw the Messenger of Allah prostrating for (Surat) Sad." Ibn Abbas said: "It is not one of the resolute prostrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uqbah bin Amir narrated:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Surah Al-Hajj has been esteemed by two prostrations?' He said: 'Yes, and whoever does not prostrate for them, he should not recite them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Al-Khattab narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever slept, (missing) his section or some of it, then he recited it between the Fajr prayer and the Zuhr prayer, it is written for him as if he had recited it in the night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"Muhammad said: 'Does not the one who raises his head before the Imam fear that Allah will transform his head into a donkey's head? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated:'Mu'adh bin Jabal would pray Al-Maghrib with the Messenger of Allah, then he would return to his people to lead them (in prayer) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"When we prayed behind the Prophet in the midday heat, we would prostrate on our garments as a protection against the heat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Samurah narrated:"When the Prophet prayed Fajr he would remain seated where he had prayed until the sun had risen (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would glance toward the right and the left during Salat but he would not turn his neck to look behind him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'eed bin Abi Hind narrated from some of the companions of Ikrimah:"The Prophet would glance during Salat" and he mentioned a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah said to me: 'O my son! Beware of looking around during the Salat, for indeed looking around during Salat is destruction. If you must do so, then in the voluntary (prayers), not in the obligatory (prayers).'" (Da'if) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about looking around during the Salat. He said: 'It is a portion which the Shaitan snatches during a man's prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mu'adh bin Jabal narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "When one of you comes to the Salat and (finds) the Imam is in a position, then do as the Imam is doing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah narrated from his father that :the Messenger of Allah said: "When the Iqamah is called for the prayer, then do not stand until you see that I have come out (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet ordered the construction of Masajid in all Dur and that they be kept clean and scented (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Hisham bin Urwah, from his father:"That the Prophet ordered." And he mentioned similarly (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Hisham from Urwah, from his father:"That the Prophet ordered." And he mentioned similarly (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Prophet said: "The Salat during the night and the day is two and two (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Ali :from the Prophet similarly (no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would not pray in women's covers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Urwah narrated that Aishah said:"I came while the Messenger of Allah was praying in the house and the door was closed. So he walked until he opened the door for me, then he returned to his place." And she described the door to be in the direction of the Qiblah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'd bin Ishaq bin Ka'b bin Ujrah narrated from his father from his grandfather who said:"The Prophet prayed Maghrib in the Masjid of Banu Abdul-Ashbal, and some people stood to offer voluntary prayers, so the Prophet said: 'This Salat is to be performed by you in your homes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qais bin Asim narrated that:he accepted Islam and the Prophet ordered him to perform Ghusl with water and Sidr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talid (may Allah be pleased with him) narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "The screen between the eyes of the jinns and nakedness of the children of Adam when one of you enters the area of relieving oneself is saying: 'Bismillah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Busr narrated that :the Prophet said: "On the day of Resurrection, my nation will be radiant from prostrating and shining from Wudu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would love to start with the right side when he purified himself, and when he combed, and when putting his sandals on (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: The acceptable Wudu is with two Ratils of water (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Shahr bin Hawshab said:(Another chain) from Khalid bin Ziyad with similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ammar narrated:"The Prophet permitted the Junub when he wanted to eat, drink, or sleep, to perform Wudu like the Wudu for Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Muhammad said:"Ibn Numair narrated to us from Ubaidullah bin Musa, from Ghalib" with this (Hadith) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated :that the Prophet said: "When you pay the Zakat you have fulfilled what is required of you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated that :the Prophet said: "A Tabi or a Tabi'ah (is due) on thirty cows, and a Musinnah (is due) on every forty (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Muhammad bin Bash-shar (Al-Abdi) narrated to us, :Muhammad bin Ja'far narrated to us, from Shu'bah, from Amr bin Murrah who said: "I asked Abu Ubaidah bin Abdullah: 'Did you remember anything from Abdullah?' He said, 'No (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :the Prophet said: "There is no charity due on less than five camels, and there is no charity due on what is less than five Uqiyah (of silver), and there is no charity due on what is less than five Wasaq (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain of narration that) Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :the Prophet said (similar t Hadith no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "There is no charity due from a Muslim for his horse nor his slave (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "A Ziqq is due for every ten Ziqq of honey (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever acquired wealth, then there is no Zakat on it until the Hawl has passed (while it is in his possession) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar said:"Whoever acquired wealth, then there is no Zakat on it until the Hawl has passed while it is in his possession (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Two Qiblahs in one land are of no benefit, and there is no Jizyah upon the Muslims (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:(A similar narration as no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Al-Harith, the nephew of Zainab, the wife of Abdullah, narrated that :Zainab, the wife of Abdullah narrated similarly from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Eisa bin Talhah narrated that :Mu'adh had written to the Prophet to ask him about greens - which is "herbs" - so he (pbuh) said, "There is nothing due on them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "For what is watered by the heavens and steams, the Ushr is due, and for what is watered by irrigation, half of the Ushr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated from his father that :the Messenger of Allah instituted the Ushr of what was watered by the heavens and steams, or through natural channels, and half of the Ushr for what is watered by irrigation (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather that :the Prophet addressed the people and said: "As for one who is the guardian of an orphan who has wealth, then let him do business with it and not leave it until it becomes consumed by charity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "The injuries caused by the animal are without liability, and mines are without liability, and wells are without liability, and the Khumus is due on Rikaz (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Mas'ud bin Niyar said:"Sahl bin Abi Hathmah came to a gathering of ours, and he narrated that the Messenger of Allah would say: "When you make an assessment, then take it and leave a third, if you do not leave a third, then leave a quarter (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Attab bin Asid narrated that :the Prophet said about Zakat on grapevines: "They are to be assessed just as the date-palm is assessed. Then its Zakat is paid in raisins just as the Zakat for the date-palm is paid in dried dates (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Rafi bin Khadij narrated:"I herd the Messenger of Allah saying: 'The one who works in collecting charity in truth is like the one who fights in the cause of Allah until he returns (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "The one who commits transgression with charity is like the one who does not pay it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jarir narrated that :the Prophet said: "When the charity collector comes to you, then he should not depart from you except while pleased (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jarir narrated :similar (narration to no. 647 with a different chain) from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Awn bin Abi Jubaitah narrated from his father:"The charity collector of the Prophet came to us. So he took the charity from our rich to our poor. I was a orphan boy, so he came to me and gave me a young she-camel from it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated that :the Prophet said: "Charity is not lawful for the rich nor for the physically fit (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrator mentioned in hadith:There is another chain with a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Bahz bin Hakim narrated from his father, from his grandfather who said:"When something was brought to him, the Messenger of Allah would ask: 'Is this charity or a gift?' If they said: 'Charity.' He would not eat it, and if they said, 'A gift' he would eat it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Fatimah bint Qais narrated that :the Prophet said: "Indeed there is a duty on wealth aside from Zakat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that :the Prophet was asked which fast was most virtuous after Ramadan? He said: "Sha'ban in honor of Ramadan" He said: "Which charity is best?" He (pbuh) said: "Charity in Ramadan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Indeed charity extinguishes the Lord's anger and it protects against the evil death (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab narrated from Safwan bin Umayyah who said:"The Messenger of Allah gave to me on the Day of Hunain, and he was the most hated creature to me. But he did not stop giving to me until he was the most loved creature to me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :Umar gave a horse to be used in the cause of Allah. Then he saw it being sold, so he wanted to buy it, but the Prophet said: "Do not take back what you have given in charity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ikrimah narrated from Ibn Abbas that :a man said: "O Messenger of Allah! My mother died, will it benefit her if I give charity on her behalf?" He said: 'Yes.' He said: 'I have a Makhraf, so bear witness that I have given it in charity on her behalf (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: "When a woman gives from her husband's home, with a good heart, not to spoil it, then she will get a reward similar to his, for her is the good she intended - and the same is for the trustee (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his grandfather that :the Prophet sent a caller in the roads of Makkah proclaiming "Sadaqatul-Fitr is required upon every Muslim, male or female, free or slave, young or old; it is two Mudd of wheat or its equivalent of a Sa of food (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Messenger of Allah made Sadaqatul-Fitr an obligation upon the male and female, the free and the bondsmen, as a Sa of dried dates or a Sa of barley." He said: "So the people equated that to half a Sa of wheat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Messenger of Allah made Sadaqatul-Fitr of Ramadan an obligation - a Sa of dried dates or a Sa of barley - required upon every free person and slave, male and female among the Muslims (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Messenger of Allah would order paying the Zakat before going to the Salat on the day of Fitr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"Al-Abbas asked the Messenger of Allah about paying his charity (Zakat) in advance before its time is due (by being in possession for a whole year), he permitted him to do that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated that :the Prophet said to Umar: "We have taken this year's Zakat from Al-Abbas in the previous year (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah bin Jundub narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Asking is a labor that toils on a man's face, except if a man asks for something from the Sultan (ruler), or he asks for something that he cannot do without (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Do no precede the month of Ramadan by fasting a day or two before it, unless it is the case of a man who normally performs some fast, then let him fast it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Silah bin Zufar said:"We were with Ammar bin Yasir when a roasted sheep was brought and he said: 'Eat.' Someone among the people said: 'I am fasting.' So Ammar said: 'Whoever fasts on a day in which there is doubt, then he has disobeyed Abul-Qasim (pbuh) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Count the (the appearances of) the crescent of Sha'ban for Ramadan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Do not fast before Ramadan. Fast with its sighting, and break fast with its sighting, and if it is obscured from you, then complete thirty days (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah vowed to stay away from his wives for a month, so he stayed in a loft for twenty-nine days. They said: 'O Messenger of Allah, your vow was for a month,' so he said: 'The month is twenty-nine (days) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakrah narrated from his father that :the Messenger of Allah said: "The two months of Eid will not both be deficient: Ramadn and Dhul-Hijjah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever has dried dates, then let him break the fast with that, and whoever does not, then let him break the fast with water, for indeed water is purifying (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salman bin Amir Ad-Dabbi narrated that :the Prophet said: "When one of you breaks his fast, then let him do so with dried dates. And whoever does not find dates, then water, for it is purifying (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would break the fast with fresh dates before performing Salat. If there were no fresh dates then (he would break the fast) with dried dates, and if there were no dried dates then he would take a few sips of water (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "The fast is the day the people fast, the breaking of the fast is the day the people break their fast, and the sacrifice is the day the people sacrifice (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Al-Khattab narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "When the night advances and the day retreats, and the sun is hidden, then the fast is to be broken (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Sa'd narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "The people will remain upon goodness as long as they hasten to break the fast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Allah, Mighty and Sublime is He, said: 'Those of My worshippers who are most beloved to me are the quickest to break their fast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:(A Hadith similar to no. 700 with a different chain) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas (bin Malik) narrated that :Zaid bin Thabit said: "We ate Sahar with the Messenger of Allah, then we stood for the Salat." I (Anas) said: "How long was that?" He said: "About the lengthy of fifty Ayahs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas (bin Malik) narrated:(Another chain) except that he said: "About the length for reciting fifty Ayahs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Talq bin Ali narrated that :The Messenger of Allah said: "Eat and drink, and do not be disturbed by the rising glow, eat and drink until the redness appears to you on the horizon (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah bin Jundub narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Do not let the Adhan of Bilal prevent you from your Sahar, nor the drawn out Fajr, but the Fajr that spreads on the horizon (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever does not leave false speech, and acting according to it, then Allah is not in any need of him leaving his food and his drink (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Partake of Sahar, for indeed there is a blessing in the Sahar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Al-As narrated :(similar to no. 708) from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that :Hamzah bin Amr Al-Aslami asked the Messenger of Allah about fasting while traveling, and he fasted regularly. So the Messenger of Allah said: 'If you wish then fast, and if you wish then break (the fast) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed (Al-Khudri) narrated:"We were on a journey with the Messenger of Allah during the month of Ramadan. No one objected to the fast of the one fasting nor the fast breaking of the one who broke his fast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:(A Hadith similar to no. 716 with a different chain) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever died while he had a month to fast, then a needy person should be fed on his behalf in place of every day (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: "Three things do not break the fast of the fasting person: Cupping, vomiting, and the wet dream (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever is overcome by vomiting, then he is not required to make up (the fast), and whoever vomits on purpose, then he must make it up (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever eats or drinks forgetfully, then he has not broken (the fast), for it was only a provision that Allah provided for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:(Another chain) with the same or similar (Hadith as no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever breaks the fast during Ramadan without an allowance or illness, then if he fasted for all time, his fasting would not make up for it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amir bin Rabi'ah narrated from his father who said:"I saw the Prophet - (a number of times) such that I was not able to count - using the Siwak while he was fasting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :a man came to the Prophet and said: "My eyes are bothering me, can I use Kuhl while I am fasting?" He said: "Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet would kiss during the month of fasting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would fondle me while he was fasting, and he had the most control among you of his limb (li irbihi) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would kiss and fondle while he was fasting, and he had the most control among you of his limbs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hafsah narrated that:the Prophet said: "Whoever did not decide to fast before Fajr then there is no fast for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah, the Mother of the Believers, narrated:"The Messenger of Allah visited me one day and said: 'Do you have anything (to eat)?'" She said: "I said: 'No.' He said: 'Then I am fasting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Salamah narrated:"I did not see the Prophet fasting two consecutive months except for Sha'ban and Ramadan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain, a Hadith similar to no. 736) for that, from Aishah, :from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "When a half of Sha'ban remains then do not fast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "The most virtuous fasting after the month of Ramadan is Allah's month Al-Muharram (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would fasting during the beginning of every month for three days, and Friday was the least of the days that he did not fast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "None of you should fast on Friday unless he fasts before it, or he fasts after it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Busr narrated from his sister that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Do not fast on Saturday except for what has been made obligatory upon you (by Allah). If one of you does not find but a grape peal or a tree's twig, then let him chew it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet used to try to fast on Mondays and Thursdays (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would fast Saturdays, Sundays, and Mondays in one months, and Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays in the next month (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: "Deeds are presented on Monday and Thursday, and I love that my deeds be presented while I am fasting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Qatadah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Fast the Day of Arafah, for indeed I anticipate that Allah will forgive (the sins) of the year after it, and the year before it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet broke (the fast) of Arafah, Umm Fadl sent him some milk to drink (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Qatadah narrated that :the Prophet said: "Fast the Day of Ashura, for indeed I anticipate that Allah will forgive (the sins of) the year before it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah ordered fasting the tenth day for the Day of Ashura (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I did not see the Prophet fasting at all during the ten (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ayub narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever fasts Ramadan, then follows it with six from Shawwal, then that is (equal in reward) to fasting everyday (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah took a covenant from me for three: To not sleep except after performing Witr, to fast three days of every month, and to perform the Duha prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Dharr narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "O Abu Dharr! When you fast three days out of a month, then fast the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Yazid Ar-Rishk said:"I heard Mu'adhah saying to Aishah: 'Did the Messenger of Allah fast three days of every month?' She replied in the affirmative. So she said: 'Which of them would he fast?' She said: 'Which of them he would fast was not noticeable (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Sa'd narrated that:The Prophet said: "There is a gate in Paradise called Ar-Raiyyan, those who fast shall be invited into it, and whoever was among those who fasted, then he will enter it; and whoever enters it, he will never thirst again (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "There are two joys for the fasting person: the joy when he breaks his fast, and the joy of when he meets his Lord (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Qatadah said:"It was said: 'O Messenger of Allah! What is the case of the one who fasts daily?' He said: 'He did not fast nor break (the fast).'" Or, he said: "He never fasted nor broke (his fast) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The most virtuous fast is the fast of my brother Dawud. He would fast a day, and not fast (the next) day. He would not flee at the time of engagement (with the enemy) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated:"The Messenger of Allah prohibited two fasts: Fasting the Day of Adha and the Day of Fitr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uqbah bin Amir narrated that :The Messenger of Allah said: "The Day of Arafah, the Day of Nahr, and the Days of Tashriq are Eid for us. The people of Islam, and they are days of eating and drinking (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Rafi bin Khadi narrated that:The Prophet said: "The cupper and the one cupped have broke the fast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"the Messenger of Allah was cupped while he was fasting and in Ihram (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet was cupped while he was fasting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet was cupped somewhere between Makkah and Al-Madinah and he was fasting and in Ihram (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Do not perform Wisal" They said: "But you perform Wisal O Messenger of Allah." He said: "I am not like you are, indeed my Lord feeds me and gives me to drink (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr Bin Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Harith bin Hashim said:"Aishah and Umm Salamah, the wives of the Prophet informed me that the Prophet would find that it was Fajr while he was Junub from (relations with) his wives, then he would perform Ghusl and fast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: "When one of you is invited to eat then let him respond, if he is fasting then let him pray." Meaning: supplicate (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :The Prophet said: "When one of you is invited (to a meal) and he is fasting, then let him said: 'Indeed I am fasting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: "A woman may not fast a day - other than in the month of Ramadan - while her husband is present, except with his permission (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I would not make up what was due upon me from Ramadan except in Sha'ban, until the Messenger of Allah died (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Laila narrated from the one who freed her (Umm Amarah) that:The Prophet said: "When those who are not fasting eat in the presence of the fasting person, the angels send Salat upon him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Umm Amarah bint Ka'b Al-Ansari:From the Prophet, that is similar, except that he did not mention "Until they finish, or they have eating their fill (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"We would menstruate during the time of the Messenger of Allah, then when we became pure we were ordered to make up the fasts but we were not ordered to make up the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Asim bin Laqit bin Sabrah narrated:From his father who said: "I said. 'O Messenger of Allah! Inform me about Wudu.' So he said: "Perform Wudu well, and go between the fingers, and perform Istinshaq extensively except when fasting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever stays with a people, then he is not to fast without their permission (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah and Aishah narrated:"The Prophet would perform I'tikaf during the last ten (days) of Ramadan until Allah took him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"When the Messenger of Allah wanted to perform I'tikaf, he would perform Fajr prayer and then he would enter his place of I'tikaf (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would Yujawir (stay in I'tikaf) during the last ten (nights) of Ramadan and he said: 'Seek the Night of Al-Qadr during the last ten (nights) of Ramadan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"The Prophet would awaken his family during the last ten (nights) of Ramadan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would struggle (to perform Salat more) during the last ten (nights) more than he would struggle in the rest of it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amir bin Mas'ud narrated that:The Prophet said: "Fasting during the winter is an easy reward (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salamah bin Al-Akwa said:"When the following was revealed: 'And for those upon whom it is difficult, (they may) feed a poor person' - if one of us wanted we would not fast, and pay the ransom, until the Ayah after it was revealed abrogating it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Muhammad bin Ka'b narrated:"I went to Anas bin Malik during Ramadan and he was about to travel. His mount was prepared for him, and he put on his traveling clothes, then he called for some food to eat, and I said to him: 'Is it Sunnah?' He said: 'It is Sunnah.' Then he rode (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Muhammad bin Ka'b who said:"I went to Anas bin Malik during Ramadan" and he mentioned a similar narration (as no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Hasan bin Ali narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The gift for the fasting person is (fragrant) oil and a censer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Al-Fitr is the day that the people break the fast, and Al-Adha is the day that the people sacrifice (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Prophet would perform I'tikaf during the last ten (nights) of Ramadan. One year he did not perform I'tikaf, so he performed I'tikaf for twenty (nights) in the following year (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"When the Messenger of Allah performed I'tikaf, he would bring his head near me so I could comb it, and he would not enter the house except for some personal needs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
That was narrated to us by Quraibah :From Al-Laith (a similar narration as no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever provides the food for a fasting person to break his fast with, then for him is the same reward as his (the fasting person's), without anything being diminished from the reward of the fasting person (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah (bin Mas'ud) narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Alternate between Hajj and Umrah; for those two remove poverty and sins just as the bellows removes filth from iron, gold, and silver - and there is no reward for Al-Hajj Al-Mabrur except for Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever performs Hajj for Allah, and he does not have sexual relations nor commit any sin, then his previous sins will be forgiven (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"A man came to the Prophet and said: 'O Messenger of Allah! What is it that makes Hajj obligatory?' He said: "The provisions and a means of conveyance (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrared:"The Messenger of Allah performed four Umrah: The Umrah of Al-Hudaibiyah, a second Umrah the following (year), (which was) the Umrah of Al-Qisas during Dhul-Qa'dah, a third Umrah from Al-Ji'irranah, and the fourth which accompanied his Hajj (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated:"When the Prophet wanted to Perform Hajj, he announced it to the people, and they gathered (to accompany him). When he reached Al-Baida he assumed Ihram (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"Al-Baida the one they lie about regarding the Messenger of Allah. By Allah! The Messenger of Allah did not start the Talbiyah except from near the Masjid, near the tree (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet started the Talbiyah after the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"the Messenger of Allah performed the Ifrad form of Hajj (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"I heard the Prophet saying: (Labbaika Bi'umratin wa Hajjah) 'Here I am for 'Umrah and Hajj (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah performed Tamattu, as did Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman. And the first to prohibit it was Mu'awiyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr As-Siddiq narrated that:The Messenger of Allah was asked: "Which Hajj is the most virtuous?" He said: "That with raised voices (Al-Ajj) and the flow of blood (of the sacrifice) (Ath-Thajj) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Sa'd narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "There is no Muslim who says the Talbiyah except that - on his right and left, until the end f the land, from here to there - the rocks, or trees, or mud say the Talbiyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Khallad bin As-Sa'ib (bin Khalad) narrated from his father:Who said that the Messenger of Allah said: "Jibril came to me and ordered me to order my Companions to raise their voices with the Ihlal, or; the Talbiyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zaid bin Thabit narrated from his father :who said that he saw the Prophet disrobing for his Ihlal and to perform Ghusl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet made Al-Aqiq the Miqat for the people of the west (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that:He heard the Messenger of Allah say: "If the Muhrim cannot find an Izar, then let him wear pants, and if he cannot find sandals, them let him wear Khuff (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ya'la bin Umayyah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah saw a Bedouin who was in Ihram wearing a cloak. So he ordered him to remove it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ya'la bin Umayyah narrated:A Hadith similar to no. 835 with a different chain (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Five are Fawasiq which may be killed in the Haram: the mouse, the scorpion, the crow, the kite, and the barbed dog (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that:The Prophet said: "The Muhrim may kill the wild beast of prey, the rabid dog, the mouse, the scorpion, the kite, and the crow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah was cupped while he was a Muhrim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Rafi narrated:"The Messenger of Allah married Maimunah while he was Halal, and he stayed with her while he was Halal, and I was the messenger between the two of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet married Maimunah while he was a Muhrim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) that Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet married Maimunah while he was a Muhrim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) that Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet married Maimunah while he was a Muhrim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Yazid bin Al-Asamm narrated about Maimunah:"The Messenger of Allah married he while he was Halal and he stayed with her while he was Halal. She died in Sarif, and we buried her at the (site of the) tent where he had stayed wit her (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated that:The Prophet said: "The land game is lawful for you while you are in Ihram as long as you did not hunt it - or - it was not hunted for you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain that) Abu Qatadah narrated:About the wild donkey, and it is similar to the (previous) narrated of Abu An-Nadr except that in the narration of Zaid bin Aslam he said that the Messenger of Allah said: "Do you have any of its meat left with you? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"We went with the Messenger of Allah during Hajj or Umrah and we encountered a swarm of locusts. We began striking at them with our whips and set our staffs, and the Prophet said: "Eat it, for indeed it is game of the sea (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abi Ammar said:"I asked Jabir bin Abdullah: 'Is the hyena game?' He said: 'Yes'" He said: "I said: 'Can it be eaten?' He said: 'Yes.'" He said: "I said: 'Did the Messenger of Allah say that?' He said: 'Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet performed Ghusl for entered Makkah at Fakhkh (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"When Prophet came to Makkah he entered it from its higher side, and left from its lower side (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet entered Makkah during the daytime (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Muhajir Al-Makki said:Jabir bin Abdulla was asked about a man raising his hands when he sees the House (Ka'bah). So he said: 'We performed Hajj with the Messenger of Allah and we did it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"The Prophet performed Raml from the (Black) Stone to the (Black) Stone for three (circuits), and he walked four (circuits) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Tufail narrated:"I was with Ibn Abbas, and Mu'awiyah would not pass any corner without touching it. So Ibn Abbas said to him: 'the Prophet would not touch any besides the Black Stone and the Yemeni corner.' So Mu'awiyah said: 'There is no part of the House that is untouchable (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Ya'la narrated from his father:"The Prophet performed Tawaf of the House Mudtabi'an, and he was wearing a Burd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abbas bin Rabi'ah said:"I saw Umar bin Al-Khattab kissing the (Black) Stone and saying: 'I am kissing you while I know that you are just a stone, and if I had not seen the Messenger of Allah kissing you, I would not kiss you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah only performed the Sa'i of the House and of As-Safa and Al-Marwah to show his strength to the idolaters (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet performed Tawaf upon his mount, so when he arrived at the (Black Stone) corner, he pointed to it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"Whoever performed Tawaf around the House fifty time, he will be as free of his sins as the day his mother bore him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ayyub As-Sakhtiyani said:"We considered Abdullah bin Sa'eed bin Jubair to be better than his father, and he had a brother named Abdul-Malik bin Sa'eed bin Jubair who also reported from him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jubair bin Mut'im narrated that :the Prophet said: "O Banu Abd Manaf! Do not prevent anyone from performing Tawaf around this House, and Salat, whichever hour it is of the night or day (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated:During the two Rak'ah of Tawaf, the Messenger of Allah recited the two Surat of Ikhlas, "Say: O you disbelievers!" and: "Say: He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ja'far bin Muhammad narrated from his father:that he considered it recommended for the two Rak'ah of Tawaf to recite: Say: "O you disbelievers!" and: Say: "He is Allah, (the) One (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zaid bin Uthai said:(Another chain) and they said: "Zaid bin Yuthai" and this is more correct (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet left me while he had a joyous look of contentment and he returned to me grieving. So I asked him about that and he said: 'I entered the Ka'bah, and I wished that I had not done it. I fear that my Ummah will follow me (in that) after me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated from Bilal:"The Prophet performed Salat in the interior of the Ka'bah." And Ibn Abbas said: "He did not perform Salat in it, but he said the Takbir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The Black Stone descended from the Paradise, and it was more white than milk, then it was blackened by the sins of the children of Adam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ata reported that Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah led us in Salat at Mina for Zuhr, Asr, Maghrib, Isha, and Fajr, then he left in the morning to Arafat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Hakam reported from Miqsam, that Ibn Abbas narrated:That the Prophet prayed Zuhr and Fajr in Mina, then he left in the morning to Arafat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah said:"We said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Shall we build a structure to shade you at Mina? He said: 'No., Mina is a resting place for whoever arrives (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Harithah bin Wahb said:"I prayed two Rak'ah with the Prophet at Mina, and the people were as secure as they ever were, and even more so (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Malik narrated:"Ibn Umar prayed at Jam (Muzdalifah), so he combined two prayers with the Iqamah, and he said: 'I saw the Messenger of Allah doing the same as this at the place (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) that Sa'eed bin Jubair narrated :Similarly from Ibn Umar, from the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Ya'mar narrated:(Another chain) with a similar narration (as no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah sent me with the Thaqal (load of baggage) during the night from Jam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet advanced the weak among his family and he said: 'Do not stone the Jamrah until the sun has risen (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"The Prophet would stone on the Day of An-Nahr during the morning light, as for (the days) afterwards, then (he would do it) after the Zenith of the sun (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet departed before the rising of the sun (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"I saw the Messenger of Allah stoning the Jimar with what was similar to pebbles for Al-Khadhaf (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah stoned the Jimar when the sun had passed the zenith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet stoned the Jamrah on the Day of An-Nahr while riding (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet would walk when stoning the Jimar, both going and returning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:The Prophet said: "Stoning the Jimari and Sa'i between As-Safa and Al-Marwah are only done for the establishment of Allah's remembrance (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qudamah bin Abdullah said:"I saw the Prophet stoning the Jimar upon his she-camel; there was no hitting, nor crowding, nor: 'Look out! Look out (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"We slaughtered with the Messenger of Allah during the year of Al-Hudaibiyah: a cow for seven, and a Badanah for seven (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"We were with the Prophet on a journey (on the Day of) Adha, so seven of us shared in a cow, and ten for a camel (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet garlanded two sandals and marked the Hadi on the right side at Dhul-Hulaifah, and removed the blood from it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet purchased his Hadi in Qudaid (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I twisted the garlands for the Hadi of the Prophet, then he did not assume Ihram, nor did he avoid any clothing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I twisted the garlands for all of the Hadi of the Messenger of Allah, which were sheep, then he did not assume Ihram (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Najiyah Al-Khuza'i (the Companion of the Messenger of Allah) said:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! What should be done with the afflicted among the Hadi?' He said: 'Slaughter them, then dip their sandals in their blood, then leave them so that the people can eat them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:That the Prophet saw a man driving his Badanah so he said to him: "Ride it." He said: "O Messenger of Allah! It is a Badanah." So on the third or fourth time he said to him: "Ride it. And woe to you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "May Allah have mercy upon those who shaved" saying it one or two times, then he said: "And those who shortened (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"The Messenger of Allah prohibited that a woman should shave her head (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) with similar (as no. 914) from Khilas:But he did not mention "from Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated:"A man asked the Messenger of Allah: 'I shaved before slaughtering.' So he said: 'Slaughter, and there is no harm.' Another man asked him: 'I performed the sacrifice before stoning.' He said: 'Stone, and there is no harm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I put perfume with musk in it on the Messenger of Allah before he assumed Ihram, and on the Day of An-Nahr before he performed Tawaf around the House (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Fadl bin Abbas narrated:"I was a companion rider with the Messenger of Allah from Jam to Mina. He did not cease saying the Talbiyah until stoning Jamrat Al-Aqabah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:(that the Prophet): "Would stop saying the Talbiyah during "Umrah when he touched the (Black) Stone (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet delayed the visiting Tawaf until the night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet, Abu Bakr, Umar, and Uthman would camp at Al-Abtah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"At-Tahsib is nothing, it is only a place that the Messenger of Allah camped at (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah only camped at Al-Abtah because it was easier for his departure (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated:"A woman held a boy of hers up for the Messenger of Allah and said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Is there Hajj for this one' He said: 'Yes, and you will be rewarded (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
As-Sa'ib bin Yazid narrated:"My father took me for Hajj with the Messenger of Allah during the Farewell Hajj, and I was seven years old (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Jabir bin Abdullah:From the Prophet, with similar (Hadith of Muhammad bin Tarif no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"When we performed our Hajj with the Prophet we would say the Talbiyah for the women and we would stone for the boys (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Fadl bin Abbas narrated:"A woman from Khath'am said: 'O Messenger of Allah! My father has lived until Allah has made Hajj obligatory, and he is an elderly man who is not able to sit on the back of a camel.' So he (pbuh) said: 'Perform Hajj for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Buraidah narrated from his father who said:"A woman came to the Prophet and said: 'My mother died and she did not perform Hajj should I perform Hajj on her behalf?' He said: 'Yes, perform Hajj on her behalf (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Razin Al-Uqaili narrated:That he went to the Prophet and said: "O Messenger of Allah! My father is an elderly man who is not able to perform Hajj nor Umrah nor undertake a journey.' He said: 'Perform Hajj on behalf of your father and perform Umrah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that:The Prophet was asked about whether Umrah was obligatory? He said: "No. But if you perform Umrah it is more virtuous (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:That the Prophet said: "Umrah has been entered into Hajj until the Day of Resurrection (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Umrah to 'Umrah atones for the sins between them, and for A1-Hajj Al-Mabrur there is no reward except Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Aws narrated from Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakr:"The Prophet ordered Abdur-RAhman bin Abi Bakr to (accompany) Aishah to perform Umrah from At-Tan'im (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Urwah said:Ibn Umar was asked: In which month did the Messenger of Allah perform Umrah? He said: 'During Rajab.' So Aishah said: 'The Messenger of Allah did not perform Umrah except that he was with him - meaning Ibn Umar - and he did not ever perform Umrah in the month of Rajab (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet performed Umrah four times, one of them was during Rajab (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara narrated:"The Prophet performed Umrah during Dhul-Qa'dah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Ma'qil narrated that:The Prophet said: "Umrah during Ramadan is equal to Hajj (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated that :His father disliked making a condition during Hajj and he said: 'Is not the Sunnah of your Prophet enough for you? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar said:"Whoever performs Hajj to the House, then let the last of their acts be at the House, except for menstruating women. The Messenger of Allah gave them permission (to leave)." (Sahih Mawquf) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Harith bin Abdullah bin Aws said:"I heard the Prophet saying: 'Whoever performs Hajj to this House, or Umrah, then let the last of his acts be at the House'" So Umar said: "May your hand be humiliated! You heard this from the Messenger of Allah but did not inform us of it? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"The Messenger of Allah performed Qaran for Hajj and Umrah, so he performed one Tawaf for both of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever assumes Ihram for Hajj and Umrah, then it is acceptable for him to perform one Tawaf and one Sa'I for them both, until he exits Ihram for both of them together (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Ala bin Al-Hadrami narrated :(that the Prophet said): "The Muhajir may stay for three (days) in Makkah after carrying out his rites (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abi Al-Baddah bin Adi narrated from his father:"The Prophet permitted the shepherds to stone a day and leave a day (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"I asked the Messenger of Allah about the day of Al-Hajj Al-Akbar and he said: 'They Day of An-Nahr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"They day of Al-Hajj Al-Akbar is the Day of An-Nahr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :the Prophet said: "Tawaf around the House is similar to Salat except that you talk during it. So whoever talks in it, then let him not say but good (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said about the (Black) Stone: "By Allah! Allah will raise it on the Day of Resurrection with two eyes by which it sees and a tongue that it speaks with, testifying to whoever touched it in truth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet would apply oil that is not scented (Ghair Muqattat) while he was a Muhrim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hisham bin Urwah narrated :from his father about Aishah, that she would carry some Zamzam water, and she would say: "Indeed the Messenger of Allah would carry it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The believer is not afflicted by the prick of a thorn or what is worse (or greater) than that, except that by it Allah raises him in rank and removes sin from him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri (may Allah be pleased with him) narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Nothing afflicts the believer, whether fatigue, grief, disease - even a worry that concerns him - except that by it, Allah removes something from his bad deeds (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thawban narrated that :the Prophet said: "Indeed the Muslim remains in the Khurfah (harvest) of Paradise while he visits his brother Muslim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Thawban who narrated that:The Prophet said similarly, but he added in it: "They said: 'What is the Khurfah of Paradise?' And he said: "Its harvest (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that:The Prophet said that (a Hadith similar to no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "A Muslim man has no right to spend two nights while he has something to will, except while his will is recorded with him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that:The Prophet said: "Instruct your dying to say: (La illaha illallah) 'None has the right to be worshipped but Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I saw the Messenger of Allah while he was dying. He had a cup with water in it, he put his hand in the cup then wiped his face with the water, then said: 'O Allah! Help me with the throes of death and the agony of death (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"I was not envious of anyone whose death was easy after I saw the severity the death of the Messenger of Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Alqamah narrated:"I heard Abdullah saying: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah saying: "The believer's soul seeps out, and I do not like the death like that of a donkey." They said: "And what is the death of a donkey?" He said: "A sudden death (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Buraidah narrated from his father, that:The Prophet said: "The believer dies with sweat on his brow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that:The Prophet said: "Beware of An-Na'i, for indeed announcing one's death is from the deeds of Jahliyyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Abdullah :(from the Prophet) similar (to no. 984), but he did not narrate it in Marfu form, and he did not mention in it: "An-Na'i is announcing of one's death (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Bilal bin Yahya Al-Absiy narrated that:Hudaifah (bin Al-Yaman) said: "When I do not announce about me to anyone, indeed I fear that it would be An-Na'i, and I heard the Messenger of Allah prohibiting from An-Na'i (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "(Real) Patience is at the first stroke of the calamity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that:The Messenger of Alllah said: "(Real) Patience is at the first stroke of the calamity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Qasim bin Muhammad narrated from Aishah:"The Prophet kissed Uthman bin Maz'un when he died, and he was crying." Or, he (one of the narrators) said: "His eyes were brimming with tears (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The best scent is the perfume of musk (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that:The Prophet was asked about musk and he said: "It is the best of your perfumes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: "Ghusl for one who washed him and Wudu for one who carried himm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Wear the white among your garments, for indeed they are among the best of your garments, and shroud your dead in them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Qatadah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "When one of you shrouds his brother, then let him use the best of his shrouds (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah shrouded Hamzah bin Abdul-Muttalib in one cloth of Namirah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Ja'far said:"When the news of the death of Ja'far came, the Prophet said: 'Prepare some food for the family of Ja'far, for indeed something has happened to them that will keep them busy (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that:The Prophet said: "He who slaps (his) cheeks, tears (his) clothes and calls with the call of the Jahliyyah is not one of us (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Al-Khattab narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The deceased is punished for the crying of his family over him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Musa bin Abi Musa Al-Asha'ri narrated from his father that:The Messenger of Allah said: "No one dies and they stand over him crying and saying: 'O what a great man he was! O how respectful he was!' except that two angels are appointed for him to poke him (saying): 'Is that you? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated that:His father said: "I saw the Prophet, Abu Bakr, and Umar walking in front of the funeral (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim bin Abdullah narrated that his father said:"I saw the Prophet, Abu Bakr, and Umar walking in front of the funeral (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Az-Zuhri said:"The Prophet, Abu Bakr, and Umar would walk in front of the funeral." Az-Zuhri said: "Salim informed me that his father would walk in front of the funeral (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would walk in front of the funeral, as did Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thawban narrated:"We went with the Prophet (following) a funeral. He saw people riding so he said: 'Are you not ashamed? Indeed Allah's angels are on their feet, while you are on the backs of your beasts (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Samurah narrated:"We were with the Prophet (following) the funeral of Ibn Ad-Dahbah, and he was on a horse that was walking quickly, and we were around him, and he was trotting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Samurah narrated:"The Prophet followed the funeral of Ibn Ad-Dahdah walking and he returned on horseback (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: "Hurry up with the funeral (procession) for if it was good, you are advancing it to good, and if it was evil, then you are taking it off your necks (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Messenger of Allah would visit the sick, attend the funerals, ride a donkey, accept the invitation of a slave, and on the Day of Banu Quraizah he was on a donkey muzzled with a cord of fibers and a pack-saddle made of fibers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Mention good things about your dead, and refrain from (mentioning) their evil (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubadah bin As-Samit said:"When the Messenger of Allah follows a corpse, he would not sit until (the deceased was) placed in the Lahd. A rabbi came upon him and said: 'This is what we do, O Muhammad'" He said: "So the Messenger of Allah sat, and he said: 'Differ from them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Prophet prayed and in the funeral prayer he for An-Najashi, said four Takbir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Laila said:"Zaid bin Arqam would say four Takbir for our funerals. (Once) he said five Takbir for a funeral so we asked him about that and he said: 'The Messenger of Allah would say those Takbir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet recited Fatihatil-Kitab for a funeral (prayer)." (Da'if Jiddan) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Talhah bin Abdullah bin Awf narrated:"Ibn Abbas performed Salat for a funeral and he recited Fatihatil-Kitab. So I asked him about it and he said: 'It is from the Sunnah' or, 'From the completeness of the Sunnah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Marthan bin Abdullah Al-Yazani narrated:"When Malik bin Hubairah performed Salat for a funeral and the people were few he would divide them into three groups (rows) then say: 'The Messenger of Allah said: "For whomever three rows perform Salat, then it is granted (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah narrated that:The Prophet said: "The rider is to be behind the funeral (procession), and the walker where he wishes, and the child should be prayed over (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that:The Prophet said: "The child is not prayed over, nor does he inherit, nor is he inherited from until one is sure he was alive at birth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah performed Salat over Suhail bin Al-Baida in the Masjid (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah bin Jundab narrated:"The Prophet prayed over a woman, so he stood at her middle (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ash-Shaibani narrated that:Ash-Sha'bi said: "I was informed by one who saw the Prophet: He (pbuh) saw a solitary grave, s he lined his Companions (behind him) to pray over it." It was said to him (Ash-Sha'bi): "Who informed you?" He said: "Ibn Abbas (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'eedbin Musayyab narrated:"Umm Sa'd died while the Prophet was absent. So when he arrived he performed Salat over her, and a month had already passed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Imran bin Husain narrated that :the Prophet said: "Indeed your brother An-Najashi has died. So stand to perform Salat for him." He (Imran) said: "We stood and lined up just as the deceased is lined up for, and we prayed for him just as the deceased is prayed for (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Muhazzim said:"I accompanied Abu Hurairah for ten years, and I heard him saying: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah saying: "Whoever follows a funeral, and carries it three times, then he has fulfilled the right that is required from him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amir bin Rabi'ah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whenever you see a funeral (procession), stand up until it goes ahead of you or it is put down (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whenever you see a funeral (procession), stand up (for it). Whoever follows it, then do not sit down until it is put down (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that:The Prophet said: "The Lahd is for us and the hole is for other than us (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ja'far bin Muhammad narrated that:His father said: "The one who made the Lahd in the grave of the Messenger of Allah was Abu Talhah. And the one who placed the velvet cloth under him was Shuqran a freed slave of Messenger of Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"A red velvet cloth was placed in the grave of the Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Wa'il narrated:"Ali said to Abu Al-Hayyaj Al-Asadi: 'I am dispatching you with what the Prophet dispatched me: "That you not leave an elevated grave without leveling it, nor an image without erasing it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Marthan Al-Ghanawi narrated that:The Prophet said: "Do not sit on the graves nor perform Salat towards them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Abu Marthad Al-Ghanawi :from the Prophet, similar (to no. 1050), but it does not contain "From Abu Idris" and this is what is correct (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"The Messenger of Allah prohibited plastering graves, writing on them, building over them, and treading on them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sulaiman bin Buraidah narrated from his father that:The Messenger of Allah said: "I had prohibited you from visiting the graves. But Muhammad was permitted to visit the grave of his mother: so visit them, for they will remind you of the Hereafter (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"Indeed the Messenger of Allah cursed the women who visit the graves (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"A funeral (procession) passed by the Messenger of Allah and they were praising him with good statements. So the Messenger of Allah said: 'Granted.' Then he said: 'You are Allah's witnesses on the earth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Any Muslim who has lost three of his children will not be touched by the Fire, except for what will fulfill the oath (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever has three that precede him (in death) while they did not reach the age of puberty, then they will be a well-fortified fortress for him against the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The martyrs are five: Those who die of the plague, stomach illness, drowning, being crushed, and the martyr in the cause of Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ishaq As-Sabi'i said:"Sulaiman bin Surad said to Khalid bin Urfutah - or, Khalid said to Sulaiman - 'Did you hear the Messenger of Allah saying: "Whoever is killed by his stomach then he will not be punished in the grave"?' One of them said to the other: "Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubadah bin As-Samit narrated that:The Prophet said: "Whoever loves to meet Allah, then Allah loves to meet him. And whoever dislikes meeting Allah, then Allah dislikes meeting him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Samurah narrated:"A man killed himself, so the Prophet did not perform Salat over him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that:The Prophet said: "Whoever consoles a person with an affliction, then he gets the same reward as him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "No Muslim dies on the day of Friday, nor the night of Friday, except that Allah protects him from the trials of the grave (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said to him: "O Ali! Three are not to be delayed: Salat when it is due, the funeral when it is presented, and (marriage) for the single woman when someone compatible is found (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Barzah narrated that :The Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever consoles a bereaved mother, he will be clothes with a Burd in Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah said, 'Allahu Akbar' over the deceased, so he raised his hands with the first Takbir, and he placed his right (hand) over his left (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The believer's soul is suspended by his debt until it is settled for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The believer's soul is suspended by his debt until it is settled for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ayyub narrated that :The Messenger of Allah said: "Four are from the Sunan of the Messengers: Al-Hayat, using Atar, the Siwak, and marriage (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qatadah narrated from Al-Hasan, from Samurah that:The Prophet prohibited celibacy (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab narrated from Sa'b bin Abi Waqqas:"The Messenger of Allah refused Uthman bin Ma'zun (when he asked) regarding celibacy, and if he had permitted it for him, then we would have castrated ourselves (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that:The Prophet said: "Indeed the woman is married for her religion, her wealth, and her beauty, so take the one with religion, and may your hands be dusty (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Bakr bin Abdullah Al-Muzani narrated that :Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah proposed to a woman, so the Prophet said: "Look at her, for indeed that is more likely to make things better between the two of you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Al-Balj narrated from Muhammad bin Hatib Al-Jumahi who said that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The distinction between the lawful and the unlawful is the Duff and the voice (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Publicize this marriage, and hold it in the Masjid, and beat the Duff for it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:When supplicating for the newlywed, the Prophet would say: (Barak Allahu laka wa baraka alaik, wa jama'a bainakuma fi khair.) "May Allah bless you and send blessings upon you, and bring goodness between you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah married me in Shawwal, and he took up residence with me in Shawwal (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:The Messenger of Allah saw some traces of saffron on `Abdur-Rahman bin `Awf so he said: 'What is this?' He said: 'I married a woman for the amount of gold equal to a date stone.' So he said: 'May Allah bless you. Have a banquet, even if with only one sheep (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Prophet had a banquet for Safiyyah bint Huyayy with Sawiq and dates (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain similar to the narration as no. 1095) :Others have reported this Hadith from Ibn Uyainah, from Az-Zuhri, from Anas, and they did not mention "from Wa'il, from his son Nawf" in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Mas'ud narrated that :The Messenger of Allah said: "Having food on the first day is was is obligatory, and having food on the second day is Sunnah, and having food on the third day is to be heard of, and whoever wants to be heard of, Allah will make him heard of (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Accept the invitation when you are offered (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Musa narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "There is no marriage except with a Wali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :the Prophet said: "The adulteresses are the ones who marry themselves without Bayyinah (proof) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Sa'eed bin Abi Arubah, with similar (narration), :And he did not narrate it in Marfu form, and this is more correct (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Every Khutbah that does not have the Tashah-hud in it, then it is like a severed hand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: "A matron should not be given in marriage until she is consulted, and a virgin should not be given in marriage until her permission is sought, and her silence is her permission (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The matron has more right to herself than her Wali, and the virgin is to give permission for herself, and her silence is her permission (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "An orphan is to be consulted about herself, then if she is silent that is her permission, and if she refuses, then do not authorize it (the marriage) for her" (meaning: when she attains the age of puberty and refuses it) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah bin Jundab narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Whichever woman is given in marriage by two Wali, then her case is in accordance with the first of them, and whoever sells something to two men, then it is for the first of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated that:The Prophet said: "Whichever slave gets married without the permission of his owner, then he is a fornicator (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) Jabir bin Abdullah narrated that:Abdullah narrated that the Prophet said: "Whichever slave gets married without the permission of his owner, then he is a fornicator (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated:"The Messenger of Allah emancipated Safiyyah and he made her emancipation her dowry (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah and Ali narrated:"The Messenger of Allah cursed the Muhill and the one the Muhallal was done for (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated:"The Messenger of Allah cursed the Muhill and the one the Muhallal was done for (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib narrated:"The Prophet prohibited the Mut'ah with women, and the meat of domestic donkeys during (the campaign of) Khaibar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Imran bin Husain narrated that :The Prophet said: "There is no Jalab, no Janab, and no Shighar in Islam. And whoever takes some property by force, then he is not from us (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"The Prophet prohibited Shighar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet prohibited marrying a woman along with her paternal aunt or along with her maternal aunt (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uqbah bin Amir Al-Juhani narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Indeed the conditions most deserving to be fulfilled are those that make the private parts lawful among you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"Ghilan bin Salamah Ath-Thaqafi accepted Islam and he had ten wives in Jahiliyyah who accepted Islam along with him. So the Prophet ordered (him) to chose four (of them) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Wahb Al-Jaishani narrated that:He heard Ibn Fairuz Ad-Dhailami narrating from his father: "I went to the Prophet and said: 'O Messenger of Allah! I accepted Islam and I had two sisters (as wives).' So the Messenger of Allah said: 'Chose whichever of them you will (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Wahb Al-Jaishani narrated from Ad-Dhahhak bin Fairuz Ad-Dailami from his father:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! I accepted Islam and I had two sisters (as wives).' So Messenger of Allah said: 'Chose whichever of them you will (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ruwaifi bin Thabit narrated that :the Prophet said: "Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, then he does not levy his water on someone else's child (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated:"We got some captives on the day of Awtas, and they had husbands among their peopled. They mentioned that to the Messenger of Allah, so the following was revealed: And women who are already married, except those whom your right hands posses (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Mas'ud Al-Ansari narrated:"The Messenger of Allah prohibited the price of a dog, the dowry of a fornicator, and the payment made to the fortune-teller (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "A man is not to sell over his brother's sale, nor is he to propose to whom his brother has proposed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"We said: 'O Messenger of Allah! We practice Azl, but the Jews claim that it is minor infanticide.' So he said: 'The Jews lie. When Allah wants to create it, nothing can prevent Him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated:"We practiced Azl while the Qur'an was being revealed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated:"Azl was mentined before the Messenger of Allah and he said: 'Why would one of you do that? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that:The Prophet would divide (his time) equally between his wives and said: "O Allah! This is my division in what I have control over, so do not punish me for what You have control over which I do not have control over (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "When a man has two wives and he is not just between them, he will come on the Day of Judgment with one side drooping (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather:"The Messenger of Allah returned his daughter Zainab to Abul-As bin Ar-Rabi with a new dowry and a new wedding (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"The Prophet returned his daughter Zainab to Abul-As bin Ar-Rabi after six years in the first marriage without renewing the marriage (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated:"A man became a Muslim during the time of the Prophet, then his wife became a Muslim, so he said: 'O Messenger of Allah! She accepted Islam along with me, so return her to me.' So he returned her to him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali (bin Abi Talib) narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“Indeed Allah has made unlawful through suckling whatever He made unlawful through lineage.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:“Indeed Allah has made unlawful through suckling whatever He made unlawful through birth.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Ash-Shariq narrated that Ibn Abbas was asked about the case in which a man had two slave girls, one of them suckled a girl and the other suckled a boy, is it lawful for the boy to marry the girl? She said:“No, the semen is the same.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Az-Zubair narrated from Aishah from the Prophet who said:“One sip or two sips do not make a prohibition.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Salamah narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“No prohibition results from suckling except for what penetrates the intestines while on the breast before weaning.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hajjaj bin Hajjaj Al-Aslami narrated that His father asked the Prophet:“O Messenger of Allah! What will remove the responsibility of the foster relationship from me?” So he said: “A Ghurrah: a male slave or a female slave.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:“Barfah’s husband was a slave, so the Messenger of Allah let her chose, and she chose herself, and if he was a free man she would not have had a choice.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:“Barfah’s husband was a free man, so the Messenger of Allah let her choose.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“The child is for the bed, and for the fornicator is the stone.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that The Prophet said:“If I were to order anyone to prostrate to anyone, then I would order the wife to prostrate to her husband.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Talq bin Ali narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“When a man calls his wife to fulfill his need, then let her come, even if she is at the oven.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Salamah narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“Whichever woman dies while her husband is pleased with her, then she enters Paradise.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“The most complete of the believers in faith, is the one with the best character among them. And the best of you are those who are best to your women.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“Allah will not look at a man who enters a man or a woman in the behind.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“When one of you breaks wind then let him perform Wudu, and do not go into your women through their behinds.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Maimunah bin Sa’d who was a servant for the Prophet, narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“The parable of the woman who walks to impress others in adornments for other than her family, is that of darkness on the Day of Judgment: There is no light for her.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“Allah becomes jealous and the believer becomes jealous. Allah’s jealousy occurs when a believer does what He has made unlawful for him.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“A woman is not to travel the distance of a day and a night unless she is accompanied by someone who is a Mahram.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uqbah bin Amir narrated that The Messenger of Allah said:“Beware of entering upon women.” So a man from the Ansar said: ‘”O Messenger of Allah! What do you think about Hamu? So he said: “The Hamu is death.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that The Prophet said:“Do not enter upon Al-Mughibar (the women whose husband are absent), for indeed the Shaitan flows through one of you as the blood flows.” We said: “And you?” He said: “And me, but Allah helped me over him, so I am safe.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that The Prophet said:“The woman is Awrah, so when she goes out, the Shaitan seeks to tempt her.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mu’adh bin Jabal narrated that The Prophet said:“No woman annoys her husband in the world except that his wife among the Al-Huril-Ain said: ‘Do not annoy him, may Allah destroy you, he is only like a guest with, soon he will part from you for us.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated that:His father divorced his wife during her menses, so Umar asked the Prophet about that and he said: "Tell him to take her back, then let him divorce her while she is pure or pregnant (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah said:"The Messenger of Allah gave us the choice, so we chose him. So was that a divorce? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Muzahir bin Aslam narrated that Al-Qasim narrated from Aishah that:The Messenger of Allah said: "The divorce for a slave woman is two divorces, and her Iddah is two menstruations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narraed that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Allah has permitted my Ummah what occurs in their mines, as long as it is not spoken or acted upon (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Three are serious when they are serious, and serious when they are in jest: Marriage, divorce, and return (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
AR-Rubayyi bint Mu'awwidh bin Al-Afra narrated:that she got a Khul during the time of the Prophet. So the Prophet ordered her - or: she was ordered - that she observe an Iddah of a menstruation (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thawban narrated that:The Prophet said: "The women who seek a Khul are hypocrites (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thawban narrated that :The Messenger of Allah said: "Whichever woman seeks a Khul from her husband without harm (cause), then the scent of Paradise will be unlawful for her (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: "Indeed the woman is like a rib, if you try to straighten her you will break her, and if you leave her, what you enjoy from her will be with the crookedness (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"I had a wife whom I loved, but my father disliked her, so he ordered me to divorce her but I refused. I mentioned that to the Prophet and he said: 'O Abdullah bin Umar! Divorce your wife (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: "No woman should ask for the divorce of her sister (in religion) in order to spill what is in her container (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :The Messenger of Allah said: "Every divorce is valid except the divorce of the Ma'tuh person whose reason is overcome." (Da'if Jiddan) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salamah bin Sakhr Al-Bayadi narrated:that the Prophet said, about the one who uttered Zihar and had intercourse before the atonement: "One atonement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah swore Ila from his wives, and he made something unlawful and he made himself unlawful what was lawful, and he made atonement for his oath (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated:"A man pronounced the Li'an on his wife, and the Prophet separated the two of them, and he decide that the child belonged to the mother (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: "The Prophet (ﷺ) died while his armour was pawned for twenty Sa' of food that he got for his family." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas'ud: From the Prophet (ﷺ): "He prohibited meeting the owners of the goods." [He said:] There are narrations on this topic from 'Ali, Ibn 'Abbas, Abu Hurairah, Abu Sa'eed, Ibn 'Umar, and a man from the Companions of the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited selling date-palms until they have blossomed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited selling grapes until they appear and selling grains until they become firm." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Gharib, we do not know of it being Marfu' except from the narration of Hammad bin Salamah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Animals [two for one] are not proper on credit, and there is no harm in a hand to hand (exchange)." The Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "They (the two) are not separate from a sale except in agreement. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Gharib (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: "The Prophet (ﷺ) gave a Bedouin the option after a sale." This Hadith is Hasan Gharib (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas'ud Al-Ansari: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited the price of a dog, the earnings of the fornicator (from harlotry), and the news of the fortune-teller." This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited eating the cat and from its price." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Gharib. We do not know of any major (known) narrators who reports from 'Umar bin Zaid (one of the narrators) besides 'Abdur-Razzaq (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Ayyub: "I narrated heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: 'Whoever seperates a mother from her child, Allah seperates him and his most beloved on the Day of Judgement.'" [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Gharib (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) judged: "The produce is for the responsible one." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih. This Hadith has been reported through routes other than this, and this acted upon according to the people of knowledge (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik: "I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) 'Can wine be used for vinegar?' He said: 'No'" [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Az-Zubair: From Jabir that the Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited Al-Muhaqalah, Al-Muzabanah, Al-Mukhabarah, and Al-Mu'awamah, and he permitted it in the case of Al-'Araya. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Allah forgave a man who was before you: He was tolerant when selling, tolerant when purchasing, and tolerant when repaying." He said: This Hadith is Gharib Sahih Hasan from this route (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah (sallAllahu Alayhi wa sallam) said:"Whoever asks for a position as a judge, then he left on his own. And whoever is forced onto it, Allah sends an angel down to him so that he can be correct." (Daif) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever seeks to be a judge, and asks others to intercede for him with it, then he will be left on his own. And whoever is coerced into it, Allah sends an angel down to him so that he can be correct." (Daif) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Whoever takes the responsibility of judge, or is appointed as judge between the people, then he has been slaughtered without a knife (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When the judge passes a judgement in which he strived and was correct, then he receives two rewards. And when he judges and is mistaken, then he receives one reward (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain of narrators) from some people from the inhabitants of Hims, from Mu'adh, from the Prophet (ﷺ), with similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Indeed, the most beloved of people to Allah on the Day of Judgement, and the nearest to Him in the status is the just Imam. And the most hated of people to Allah and the furthest from Him in status is the oppressive Imam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
[Abdullah] Ibn Abi Al-Awfa narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"[Indeed] Allah is with the judge as long as he is not unjust. So when he is unjust, He leaves him and he is attended by Shaitan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'When two men come to you seeking judgement, do not judge for the first until you have heard the statement of the other. Soon you will know how to judge.'" 'Ali said: "I did not err since then (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Abu Maryam the Companion of the Prophet (ﷺ), from the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the one who bribes and the one who takes a bribe for a judgement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr narrated:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the one who bribes and the one who takes a bribe (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"If trotter (lacking meat) were given to me I would accept it, and if I was invited to (a meal of) it I would accept (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that during a Khutbah, the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The proof is due from the claimant, and the oath is due from the one the claim is made against (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) judged that the oath is due from the one the claim is made against (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated:"The Prophet (ﷺ) passed judgement based on oath along with a witness (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ja'far bin Muhammad narrated from his father:"The Prophet (ﷺ) passed judgement based on an oath along with one witness." He said: "And 'Ali judged between you based on it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim narrated from his father that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whoever frees a portion of a slave he owns, then he can afford the remainder of the price, then he should free him with his wealth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"The lifelong gift is permitted for its inhabitant" or:"is an inheritance for its inhabitant (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Whichever man is given a lifelong gift for himself and his offspring, then it belongs to the one whom it was given, it does not return to the one who gave it, for he has given a gift which shall be included in the inheritance (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"The lifelong gift is permitted for its inhabitant, and the Ruqba is permitted for its inhabitant (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The oath is based upon what will make your companion believe you.” [Qutaibah (one of the narrators) said: “ What will make you believed by your companion” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Make the road seven forearm lengths.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When you disagree over the road, then make it seven forearm lengths (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Maimunah narrated from Abu Hurairah who said:"The Prophet (ﷺ) gave a boy the choice between his father and his mother (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Indeed the most wholesome of what you consume is from your earnings, and indeed your children are from your earnings (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"One of the wives of the Prophet (ﷺ) gave the Prophet (ﷺ) some food in a bowl. Then 'Aishah broke the bowl with her hand, and discarded what was in it. So the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Food for food and vessel for vessel (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) borrowed a bowl which broke, so he guaranteed (compensated) it for them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara':"My maternal uncle Abu Burdah Ibn Niyar passed by me and he had a flag with him. I said: 'Where are you going ?' He said: 'the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) dispatched me to a man who married a woman his father had married to: that I should bring him his head (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Rafi' bin Khadij:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever farms a people's land without their permission, then nothing he farms belongs to him and its finances are due to him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man bin Bashir:That his father gave a slave to a son of his. So he went to the Prophet (ﷺ) to have him witness it. He (ﷺ) said: 'Have you given a gift similar to this one to all of your sons?' He replied: 'No'. So he said: 'Then take him back (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Samurah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The neighbor of a home has more right to the home (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The neighbor has more right to his preemption. He is to be waited for even if he is absent, when their paths are the same (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When the boundaries are defined and the streets are fixed, then there is no preemption (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The partner is the preemptor, and preemption is in everything (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah, may Allah be pleased with him, narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"When a person dies, his deeds are cut off except for three: Continuing charity, knowledge that others benefited from, and a righteous son who supplicates for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'eed bin Zaid:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever revives a barren land then it is for him, and there is no right for the unjust root (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever revives a barren land, then it is for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Alqamah bin Wa'il:from his father that the Prophet (ﷺ) set aside a land reserve for him in Hadramawt. (One of the narrators added): "And he sent Mu'awiyah with him to reserve it for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "No Muslim plants a plant or sows a crop, then a person, or a bird, or an animal eats from it, except that it will be charity for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"The Prophet (ﷺ) made a deal with the people of Khaibar for half of what was produced from it, whether fruits or crops (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not prohibit share-cropping. But he ordered that they be helpful with each other (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas'ud:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) judged for the accidental blood-Money: Twenty Bint Makhad, twenty make Ibn Makhad, twenty Bint Labunm twenty Jadha'ah, and twenty Hiqqah. (Another chain) with similar meaning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ikrimah:from Ibn 'Abbas that the Prophet (ﷺ) made the blood-money twelve thousand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from 'Ikrimah from the Prophet (ﷺ) and it is similar but he did not mention "from Ibn 'Abbas" in it. There is much more criticism than this for (this) narration of Ibn 'Uyainah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Shu'aib:from his father, from his grandfather that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Regarding the Mawadih; five, five (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The blood-money for the fingers on the hands and (the toes of) the feet is the same: Ten camels for each finger (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "These and these are the same." referring to the little finger and thumb (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed the first cases to be judged between the people are those of bloodshed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:"Indeed the first cases to be judged between the worshippers are those of bloodshed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Suraqah bin Malik bin [Ju'shum]:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) judged that the son is to suffer retaliation for [killing] his father, but the father is not to suffer retaliation for [killing] his son (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The father does not suffer retaliation for [killing] the son (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'The Hudud are not carried in the Masjid, and the father is not killed for the son (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) assigned the same blood-money for the two 'Amiris as that of the Muslims, and they had covenant from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Samurah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever kills his slave, then we will kill him, and whoever maims his slave, then we will maim him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Bahz bin Hakim:from his father, from his grandfather, that the Prophet (ﷺ) imprisoned a man for an accusation, then he let him go (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'eed bin Zaid bin 'Amr bin Nufail:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever is killed over his wealth then he is a martyr. [And whoever steals a hand-span of land, he will bear seven earths on the Day of Resurrection] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever is killed over his wealth, then he is martyr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The pen has been lifted from three; for the sleeping person until he awakens, for the boy until he becomes a young man and for the mentally insane until he regains sanity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah: that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): "Avert the legal penalties from the Muslims as much as possible, if he has a way out then leave him to his way, for if the Imam makes a mistake in forgiving it would be better than making mistake in punishment (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stoned a Jew and Jewess (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samurah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) stoned a Jew and a Jewess (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If one of your slave girl commits illegal sexual intercourse, then whip her three times according to the Book of Allah, and if she does it again then sell her, even if it is for a rope made of hair (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) implemented the penalty by beating forty times, with two shoes - Mis'ar (one of the narrators) said: "It think it was for wine (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Mu'awiyah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever drinks wine, then lash him. If he returns to it, then on the fourth time kill him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) used to cut the hand for a fourth of a Dinar and beyond that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cut the hand for a shield worth three Dirham (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin Muhariz said:"I asked Fadalah bin 'Ubaid about hanging the hand around the neck of the thief: 'Is this from the Sunnah?' He said: 'A man came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with a thief so his hand was cut off, and then he ordered that it be hung around his neck (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir :That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "There is no cutting of the hand for the traitor, or the embezzler, nor the plunderer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Rafi' bin Khadij:That he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "There is no cutting of the hand for fruits or palm marrow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Busr Bin Artah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The hands are not cut in the battles (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from An-Nu'man bin Bashir with similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whomever you find doing the actions of the people of Lut then kill the one doing it, and the one it is done to (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "What I fear most from my Ummah is the behavior of the people of Lut (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever carries weapons against us, he is not from us (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jundab:That he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: "The punishment of the Sahir is a strike of the sword (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "If a man says to another man: 'O you Jew' then beat him twenty times. If he says: 'O you effeminate' then beat him twenty times. And whoever has relations with someone that is a Mahram then kill him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Burdah bun Niyar:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "No one is to be lashed more than ten lashes except for a legal punishment among Allah's punishments (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:"We have been forbidden from the game caught by a Zoroastrian's dog (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Adi bin Hatim:"I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the game caught by a falcon. So he said: 'What it catches for you, then eat it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Adi bin Hatim:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! I shoot some game and then find my arrow in it the next day.' He said: 'If you know that your arrow killed it, and you dont see any marks of predators, then eat it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:That a man from his people hunted a rabbit or two and slaughtered them with Marwah. Then he hung them up until he met the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), so he asked him about that, and he (ﷺ) told him to eat them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Ad-Darda':"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited eating the Mujath-thamah, and it is what is trapped and killed by arrows (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited taking a living thing as a shooting target (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Slaughtering the fetus is (achieved by) the slaughtering of its mother (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"On the Day of Khaibar, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited eating domesticated donkeys, the meat of mules, every predator that possesses canine teeth, and every bird that possesses talons (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited every predator that possesses canine teeth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Al-'Ushara':From his father that he said: "I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Is there no slaughtering except upon the neck and the throat ?' He said: 'If you stab its thigh it would be accepted to you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever kills a gecko in one strike, he has such and such reward, and if he kills it on the second strike, he will have such and such reward, and if he kills it on the third strike, then he has such and such reward (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Kill snakes and kill Dhut-Tufyatain and Al-Abtar, because they blind the sight and cause abortions of fetuses (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Laila:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When a snake appears in your dwellings then say to it: We ask you - by covenant of Nuh, and by the covenant of Sulaiman bin Dawud - that you do not harm us.' If it returns, then kill it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mughaffal:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If it were not that dogs were part of a nation among the nations, then I would order to that all of them be killed. So kill every one of them that is all black (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever keeps a dog" - or: "acquires a dog" - "neither of hunting nor to guard livestock, then two Qirat are deducted from his reward, daily (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered killing dogs, except for the hunting dog, or the dog that guards livestock." It was said to him: "Abu Hurairah would say: 'or a farm dog' so he (Ibn 'Umar) said: "Abu Hurairah had a farm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever acquires a dog - with the exception of a dog to guard livestock, a hunting dog, or a farm dog - each day a Qirat is deducted from his reward (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) slaughtered two horned male sheep which were mostly white. He slaughtered them with his hand and mentioned Allah's Name, and he said 'Allahu Akbar', and put his foot on their side (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Hanash:That 'Ali used to slaughter two male sheep, one for the Prophet (ﷺ) and the other for himself. When this was mentioned to him, he said: "He ordered me to" - meaning the Prophet (ﷺ) - "So I will never leave it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) slaughtered a horned male ram of fine pedigree, (around) his mouth was black, and his legs were black, and (around) his eyes was black (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"We were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on a journey when the (Day of) Adha came, so we shared seven for a cow and ten for a camel (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"We performed the Nahr (sacrifice) with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) at Al-Hudaibiyyah: A camel for seven (persons) and a cow for seven (persons) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar :"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stayed in Al-Madinah for ten years performing the Udhiyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "None of you should eat from the meat of his sacrificial animal beyond three days (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Yusuf bin Mahak:They entered upon Hafsah bint 'Abdur-Rahman to ask her about the 'Aqiqah. She informed them that 'Aishah had informed her, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered them that for a boy, two sheep were sufficient, and for a girl one sheep (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Rafi':That his father said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say the Adhan in the ear of Al-Hasan bin 'Ali - when he was born to Fatimah - the Adhan of Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Kurz:That she asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the 'Aqiqah. He said: "For the boy is two sheep, and for the girl is one, it will not harm you if they (i.e. the sheep) are male or female (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Umamah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best of Udhiyah (sacrifice) is a ram, and the best (burial) shroud is the Hullah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Mikhnaf bin Sulaim:"We were standing with the Prophet (ﷺ) at 'Arafat when I heard him say: 'O you people! For every household each year is Udhiyah (sacrifice) and 'Atirah. Do you know what an 'Atirah is ? It is that which you call Ar-Rajabiyyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abi Bakrah:From his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) gave a Khutbah, then he descended and called for two rams and slaughtered them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever sees the crescent of Dhul-Hijjah, and wants to slaughter a sacrifice he should not take from his hair nor from his nails (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "There is no vowing for disobedience, and its atonement is the atonement of an oath (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "There is no vowing in disobedience to Allah, and its atonement is the atonement of an oath (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Thabit bin Adh-Dahhak:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "It is not for a person to vow about that over which he has no control (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The atonement of a vow when it is not specified is the atonement of an oath (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever takes an oath, and then he sees that something else is better than it, then he should make atonement for his oath and then do it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever swears about an oath and says: 'If Allah wills (Insha Allah), then there is no breaking of the oath against him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever swears [about an oath] and says: 'If Allah wills (Insha Allah), then he will not have broken it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'd bin 'Ubaidah:That Ibn 'Umar heard a man saying: "No by the Ka'bah" so Ibn 'Umar said: "Nothing is sworn by other than Allah, for I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'Whoever swears by other than Allah, he has committed disbelief or shirk (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:"A Woman vowed to walk to the House of Allah, so the Prophet (ﷺ) asked about that, and he said: 'Verily Allah is in no need of her walking, order her to ride (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not vow, for the vows does not prevent what is decreed at all, and it only causes the miser to spend (of his wealth) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Umar:"I said:'O Messenger of Allah! I had vowed to perform I'tikaf in Al-Masjid Al-Haram for a night during the era of Jahiliyyah.' He said: 'Fulfill your vow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Salim bin 'Abdullah:From this father (Ibn Umar) who said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) often would swear with this oath: 'No! By the Changer of the Hearts (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: 'Whoever frees a believing slave, then Allah frees a limb from the Fire for each of his limbs, such that he frees his private parts in lieu of his private parts (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Suwaid bin Muqarrin Al-Muzani:"We were seven brothers without a servant except one, and one of us slapped her, so the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered us to free her (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Thabit bin Adh-Dahhak:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever swears by a religion other than Islam while lying, then he is as he said (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever among you swears, saying in his oath: 'By Al-Lat! By Al-'Uzza!' Then let him say 'La ilaha illa Allah' And whoever says: 'Come let me gamble with you!' Then let him give in charity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:That Sa'd bin 'Ubadah asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about a vow that was due from his mother, who died before fulfilling it. The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Fulfill it for her (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Asim Al-Muzani:From his father and he was a Companion who said: "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) dispatched any army or battalion, he would say to them: 'If you see a Masjid, or hear someone calling the Adhan, then do not kill anyone (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Talhah:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) overtook a people he would stay at the outskirts of their city for three nights (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa’id Al Khudri : "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited selling the spoils of war until it has been distributed." There is something on this topic from Abu Hurairah. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Gharib (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: "I was informed by As-Sa'b bin Jaththamah who said: " I said: "O Messenger of Allah our horses trampled over women and children of the idolaters." He said: "They are from their fathers.'" [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to go to battle with Umm Sulaim, and other women with her, from the Ansar, who would give water and attend to the wounded." [Abu 'Eisa said:] There is something on this topic from Ar-Rabi' bin Mu'awwidh. This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Bajalah: That 'Umar would not take the Jizyah from the Zoroastrians until 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf informed him that the Prophet (ﷺ) took Jizyah from the Zoroastrians of Hajar." There is more dialogue in the Hadith than this. And this Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Yazid bin Abi 'Ubaid: "I said to Salamah bin Al-Akwa': "For what did you pledge to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) on the Day of Al-Hudaibiyyah?" He said: "For death." This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar: "We used to pledge to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to hear and obey." So he would say to us: "As much as you are able." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever plunders then he is not of us." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih Gharib as a Hadith of Anas (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed when a Jew gives Salam to one of you, then he is only saying: 'As-Samu 'Alaikum' (Death be upon you) so say: "Alaik (And upon you).'" [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If I live - if Allah wills - I will expel the Jews and the Christians from the Arabian Peninsula (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah : "Umar bin Al-Khattab informed me that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'I will expel the Jews and the Christians from the Arabian Peninsula, and I will not leave anyone in it except a Muslim." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "There is no 'Adwa and no Tiyarah, and I like Fa'l." They said: "O Messenger of Allah! What is Fa'l?" He said: "A good statement." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik: That the Prophet (ﷺ) used to like it when he set out upon an affair if he heard: "O directed one, O successful one." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih Gharib (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa’id Al Khudri : That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "A worshipper does not fast a day in the cause of Allah except that, that day (of fasting) distances the Fire from his face by seventy autumns." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Umamah Al-Bahili: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said, "Whoever fasts a day in the cause of Allah, Allah shall put between him and the Fire a trench whose distance is like that between the heavens and the earth." This Hadith is Gharib as a narration of Abu Umamah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, "Whoever prepares a fighter in Allah's cause, or looks after the family of a fighter, then he has participated in a military expedition." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said similarly (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ka'b bin Malik: From his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The souls of the martyrs are in green birds, suspended from the fruit of Paradise, or the trees of Paradise." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said, "I was shown the first of (every) three to enter Paradise: A martyr, an 'Atif, who is a Muta'affif, and a slave who perfected his worship of Allah, and was sincere to his masters." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Mu’adh bin Jabal : That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever asks Allah to be killed in His cause sincerely from his heart, Allah shall give him the reward of martyrdom. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Another chain from Anas, from the Prophet (ﷺ) with similar in its meaning. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The martyr does not sense the touch of death except as one of you senses the touch of a (bug) bite. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Gharib Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If the people knew what I know about being alone, then a rider would not journey at night." - meaning alone (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: "The flag of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was black, and his standard was white." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Gharib from this route, as a narration of Ibn 'Abbas (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik: "The Prophet (ﷺ) rode a horse belonging to Abu Talhah called Mandub. He said: 'There is nothing to be frightened of, and we found him to be (quick) like the sea.'" [Abu 'Eisa said:] There is something on this topic from Ibn 'Amr Al-'As (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The blessing of the horse is in its redness." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Gharib, we do not know of it except from this route, from the narration of Shaiban (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Another chain with similar meaning. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Gharib Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "No stake is acceptable except in archery, racing a camel, and racing a horse (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Ad-Darda': That he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying: "Seek your weak for me. For indeed you sustenance and aid is only by your weak." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The angels do no accompany a group among whom there is a dog or a bell." [Abu 'Eisa said:] There are narrations on this topic from Ibn 'Umar, Umm Habibah, and Umm Salamah. This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Yahya:From Mujahid from Ibn 'Abbas who said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited instigating fights between beasts (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: "The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited branding on the face and striking (it)." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated As-Sa'ib bin Yazid: "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) arrived from Tabuk, the people went out to Thaniyyah Al-Wada' to meet him." As-Sa'ib said: "I went out with the people, and I was a boy." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Suwaid bin Ghafalah: That 'Umar gave a Khutbah at Al-Jabiyah and he said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited silk except for two finger's worth of space, or three, or four." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited wearing Al-Qassi and what was dyed with 'Usfur." [Abu 'Eisa said:] There are narrations on this topic from Anas and 'Abdullah bin 'Amr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah: "The Prophet (ﷺ) slackened Fatimah's garment a hand-span." [Abu 'Eisa said:] Some of them reported it from Hammad bin Salamah, from 'Ali bin Zaid, from Al-Hasan, from his father, from Umm Salamah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Burdah: "'Aishah brought a patched woolen Kisa' (cloak), and a thick Izar, She said: 'The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) died in these.'" [Abu 'Eisa said:] There are narrations on this topic from 'Ali and Ibn Mas'ud. The Hadith if 'Aishah is Hasan Sahih Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: "On the day of the Conquest, the Prophet (ﷺ) entered Makkah, and he was wearing a black 'Imamah." [He said:] THere are narrations on this topic from 'Ali, 'Amr bin Huraith, Ibn 'Abbas, Rukanah. [Abu 'Eisa said:] The Hadith is Jabir is Hasan Sahih Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited me from rings of gold, and from wearing Al-Qassi, and from reciting in the bowing and prostration positions, and from wearing what was dyed with 'Usfur." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas: "The Prophet (ﷺ) had ring made of silver and its stone (Fass) was Ethiopian." He said: There are narrations on this topic from Ibn 'Umar and Buraidah. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih Gharib from this route (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas: "The ring of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was made of silver, its Fass was from it." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih Gharib from this route (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ja'far bin Muhammad : Narrated from his father who said: "Al-Hasan and Al-Husain wore their ring on their left hand." This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas: "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) entered the area in which he would relieve himself, he would remove the ring." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih Gharib Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"The inscription on the ring of the Prophet (ﷺ) was in three lines: 'Muhammad' on a line, 'Messenger' on a line, and 'Allah' on a line (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Dharr: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Indeed the best of what the gray may be changed with is Henna' and Katam." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih. Abu Al-Aswad Ad-Dili's (a narrator in this chain) name is Zalim bin 'Amr bin Sufyan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah: "The only bed that the Messenger of Allah had which he slept was [made of a tanned skin] stuffed with palm-fibres." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih. He Said: There are narrations on thus topic from Hafsah and Jabir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah:"The most loved garment to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was the Qamis (long shirt) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah:"The most loved garment to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was the Qamis (long shirt) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Asma' bint Yazid bin As-Sakan Al-Ansariyyah:"The sleeves of (the shirt) of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) were to the wrist." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Gharib (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: "When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) put on a Qamis he began with the right side. [Abu 'Eisa said:] Others have reported this Hadith from Shu'bah with this chain, but they dod narrate it in Marfu' form, only 'Abdus-Samad narrated it Marfu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Urwah bin Al-Mugirah bin Shu'bah: From his father: "The Prophet (ﷺ) wore a Roman Jubbah with tight sleeves." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Al-Malih:"The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited predator skins." And this chain is more correct (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Qatadah:"I asked Anas bin Malik: 'How were the sandals of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ? He said: 'They had two straps (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Qatadah: From Anas: "The sandals of the Prophet (ﷺ) had two straps." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih. He said: There are narrations on this topic from Ibn 'Abbas, and Abu Hurairah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not walk in one sandal, either wear both sandals, or go barefoot." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih. He said: There is something on this topic from Jabir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:"Sometimes the Prophet (ﷺ) would walk in one sandal (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Qasim: From his father, about 'Aishah that: "She would walk in one sandal." This is more correct. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This is how it was reported by Sufyan Ath-Thawri and others, from 'Abdur-Rahman bin Al-Qasim, in Mawquf form, and this is more correct (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas: "The garment the Messenger (ﷺ) like most to wear was the Hibrah." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih Gharib (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Az-Zuhri:From Salim, from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When one of you eats, then let him eat with his right hand, and let him drink with his right hand, for indeed Ash-Shaitan eats with his left hand, and he drinks with his left hand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "When one of you eats food, and he drops a pieces of it, then let him remove anything suspicious from it and eat it. Do not leave it for Ash-Shaitan." He said: There is something about this from Anas (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sharik bin Hanbal:That 'Ali said: "Eating garlic was prohibited except when cooked (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Salim: From his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not leave the fire (burning) in your houses when you sleep." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited taking two dates at a time until seeking permission from one's companion." He said: There is something on this topic from Sa'd the freed slave of Abu Bakr. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah: "The Prophet (ﷺ) liked sweets and honey." This Hadith is Hasan Sahih Gharib. 'Ali bin Mus-hir reported it from Hisham bin 'Urwah, and there is more stated in the Hadith than this (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "What an excellent condiment vinegar is (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "What an excellent condiment vinegar is." There are narrations on this topic from 'Aishah and Umm Hani', and this is more correct than the narration of Mubarak bin Sa'eed (no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Ja'far: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would eat snake cucumber with fresh dates. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih Gharib, we do not know of it except as a narration of Ibrahim bin Sa'd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) taking from the sides around the dish - meaning the gourd. Since then I still like it." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih. This Hadith has been reported through more than one route from Anas bin Malik (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Asid: "The Prophet (ﷺ) said: Eat of its oil and use it (the olives), for indeed it is from a blessed tree." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Gharib from this route. We only know of it from the narration of Sufyan At-Thawri, from 'Abdullah bin 'Eisa (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr: That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "(All of you) worship Ar-Rahman, feed others, spread the (greeting of) Salam, then you will enter Paradise in security." He said: This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah: That the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked about Bit' so he said: "All drinks that intoxicate are unlawful." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Umar: "Indeed Khamr comes from wheat." And he mentioned this Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin ‘Abdullah : "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited making Nabidh from unripend dates and fresh dates together. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Qatadah: From Anas: "The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited that a man should drink while standing." (Qatadah said:) So it was said: "And eating ?" He (Anas) said: "That is worse." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: "The Prophet (ﷺ) drank from Zamzam while he was standing." He said: There are narrations on this topic from 'Ali, Sa'd, 'Abdullah bin 'Amr and 'Aishah. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Shu'aib: From his father, from his grandfather who said: "I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) drinking while standing and sitting." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited breathing in the vessel, or blowing into it." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Abi Qatadah: From his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When one of you drinks, then do not breathe into the vessel." [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubaidullah bin 'Abdullah narrated a report (of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) from Abu Sa'eed, that he prohibited bending the mouths of the water-skins. He said:There are narrations on this topic from Jabir, Ibn 'Abbas, and Abu Hurairah. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Qatadah: That the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The one providing water for people is the last of them to drink." He said: There is something on this topic from Ibn Abi Awfa. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated that:the Prophet said: "The Lord's pleasure is in the parent's pleasure, and the Lord's anger is in the parent's anger."(Hasan) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that :the Prophet said: "Among the most dutiful of deeds is that a man nurture relations with the people his father was friends with (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara' bin Azib narrated that :the Prophet said: "The maternal aunt holds the same status as the mother (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Harairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Three supplications are accepted , there is no doubt in them (about them being accepted): The supplication of the oppressed, the supplication of the traveler, and the supplication of his father against his son (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: "A son could not do enough for his father, unless he found him as a slave and purchased him to set him free (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated that:the Prophet said: "Merely maintaining the ties of kinship is not adequate. But connecting the ties of kinship is when his ties to the womb are severed and he connects it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Muhammad bin Jubair bin Mut'im narrated from his father, that:the Messenger of Allah said: "The one who severs ties will not enter Paradise." Ibn Abi 'Umar said: "Sufyan said: 'Meaning: Ties of the womb (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "There is no one who has three daughters, or three sisters, and he treats them well, except that he enters paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that the:Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever is tried with something from daughters, and he is patient with them, they will be a barrier from the Fire for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr bin 'Ubaidullah bin Anas bin Malik narrated [from Anas] that:the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever raises two girls then I and he will enter Paradise like these two." And he indicated with his two fingers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: "Whoever has three daughters, or three sisters, or two daughters, or two sisters and he keeps good company with them and fears Allah regarding them, then Paradise is for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that:the Prophet said: Whoever takes in an orphan among the Muslims to raise, to feed him and give him drink, Allah admits him into Paradise without a doubt, unless he has done a sin for which he is not forgiven (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Sa'd narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: " I and the sponsor of an orphan shall be in Paradise like these two."And he indicaed with his fingers, meaning his index and his middle finger (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that:"An older man came to talk to the Prophet, and the people were hesitant to make room for him. The Prophet said: ;He is not one of us who does not have mercy on our young and does not respect our elders (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated that his father, from his grandfather, who said that the Messenger of Allah said:'He is not one of us who does not have mercy upon our young, nor knows the honor of our elders (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:" He is not one of us who does not have mercy upon our young, respect our elders, and command good and forbid evil (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jarir bin Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever does not show mercy to the people, Allah will not show mercy to him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that Abul- Qasim said:"Mercy is not removed (from anyone) except from a wicked one (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jarir bin 'Abdullah narrated :" I pledged to the Prophet to establish the Salat, give the Zakat, and to give sincere advice to every Muslim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:the Messenger of Allah said: "The religion is An-Nasihah" three times. They said: "O Messenger of Allah! For Whom?" He said : "To Allah , His books, the A'immah of the Muslims, and their average people (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Musa Al-Ash'arf narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:: The believer is to the believer like parts of a building, each one of them supporting the other (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:: "Indeed (each) one of you is the reflection of his brother. So if he sees something harmful in him, then let him remove it from him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ad-Darda narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever protects his brother's honor, Allah protects his face from the Fire on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:: It is not lawful for the Muslim to shun his brother for more than three (days); they come fare to fare and this one turns away, and that one turns away. The best of them is the one who initiates the Salam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not cut off one another, nor desert one another, nor hate one another, nor envy one another. Be you , O worshippers o Allah, brothers. It is not lawful for the Muslim to shun his brother for more than three(days) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Indeed Ash-Shaitan has despaired of getting those who perform Salat to worship him.But he is engaged in sowing hatred among them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Kulthum bint 'Uqbah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"One who brings peace between people is not a liar, he says something good, or reports something good (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Asma bint Yazid narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"it is not lawful to lie except in three cases: Something the man tells his wife to please her, to lie during war, and to lie in order to bring peace between the people (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sirmah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever causes harm, Allah harms him, and whoever is harsh, Allah will be harsh with him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr As-Siddiq narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Cursed are those who harm a believer, or plot to do so (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Jibril – may the Salawat of Allah be upon him – continued to recommend me about (treating) the neighbors so (kindly and politely), that I thought he would order me to make them heirs.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"The companion who is the best to Allah is the one who is best to his companion. And the neighbor that is the best to Allah is the one that is best to his neighbor (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr As-Siddiq narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"The one who treats his slaves badly will not enter paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Umar narrated:"A man came to the Prophet and said: 'O Messenger of Allah! How many times should the servant be pardoned?' The Prophet was silent. Then he said: 'O Messenger of Allah! How many times should the servant be pardoned?' He said: ' Seventy times each day (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"When one of you beats his servant then he (should) remember Allah and, withhold your hands (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Sumurah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"That a man should discipline his son is better for him than to have given a Sa' in charity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ayyub bin Musa narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah said :"There is no gift that a father gives his son more virtuous than good manners (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Prophet would accept gifts and he would give something in return (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"Whoever is not grateful to the people, he is not grateful to Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"Whoever is not grateful to the people, he is not grateful to Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara bin Azib narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"Whoever gives someone some milk or silver, or guides him through a strait, then he will have the reward similar to freeing a slave (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"When a man was walking on the road, he found a thorny branch and removed it. Allah appreciated his action by forgiving him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said :"When a man narrates a narration, then he looks around, then it is a trust (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Asma bint Abi Bakr said:" O the Messenger of Allah! I have nothing except what was given to me by (my husband) Az-Zubair, shall I give it (in charity)?'" It was said: "Do not hold (your wealth) so that Allah will hold against you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Two traits are not combined in a believer: Stinginess and bad manners (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr As-Siddiq narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"The swindler, the stingy person, and the Mannan shall not enter Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"The believer is naively noble and the stingy person is deceitfully treacherous (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Mas'ud Al-Ansari narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"A man's spending on his family is charity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Shuraih Al-Kabi narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:: "Hospitality is for three days, and his reward is a day and a night, and whatever is spent on him after that is charity. And it is not lawful for him (the guest) to stay so long as to cause him harm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Safwan bin Sulaim narrated that the Prophet said:"The one who looks after a widow and a poor person is like the Mujahid in the cause of Allah, or like the one who fasts all the day and stands (in prayer) all the night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Every good is charity. Indeed among the good is to meet your brother with a smiling face, and to pour what is left in your bucket into the vessel of your brother (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"When the slave (of Allah) lies, the angel goes a mile away from him because of the stench of what he has done."Yahya said: "(I asked) 'Abdur-Rahim bin Harun if he approved of it,and he said 'Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"There was no behavior more hated to the Messenger of Allah than lying. A man would lie in narrating something in the presence of the Prophet, and he would not be content until he knew that he had repented (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Al-Fuhsh is not present in anything but it mars it, and Al-Haya' is not present in anything but it beautifies it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr said; "The Messenger of Allah said:"The best of you are those best in conduct.' And the Prophet was not one who was obscene, nor one who uttered obscenities (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah bin Jundab narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not curse yourselves with Allah's curse, nor with His anger, nor with the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"The believer does not insult the honor of others, nor curse, nor commit Fahishah, nor is he foul (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that a man cursed the wind in the presence of the Prophet, so he said:"Do not curse the wind, for it is merely doing as ordered , and whoever curses something undeservingly, then the curse returns upon him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Learn enough about your lineage to facilitate keeping your ties of kinship. For indeed keeping the ties of kinship encourages affection among the relatives, increases the wealth, and increases the lifespan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abudullah bin 'Amr narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"No supplication is more readily responded to, than the supplication made for someone who is absent (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"(The burden of) what is said by the two who vilify each other is upon the one who initiated it, as long as the one who was wronged does not transgress (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not vilify the dead (and) by that harm the living (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Verbally abusing the Muslim is disobedience and fighting him is disbelief." Zubaid said:"I said to Abu Wa'il: 'Did you hear it from 'Abdullah?' He said: 'Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"How wonderful it is for one of them that he obeys Allah and fulfills the rights of his master." Meaning the slave. And Ka'b said: "Allah and His Messenger spoke the truth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Dharr said:"The Messenger of Allah said to me: 'Have Taqwa of Allah wherever you are, and follow an evil deed with a good one to wipe it out, and treat the people with good behavior (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Beware of Zann (suspicion), for indeed Zann is the falsest of speech (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:" The Messenger of Allah used to mingle with us such that he said to my younger brother: 'O Abu 'Umair! What did the Nughair do? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"They said: 'O Messenger of Allah! You joke with us?' He said: 'Indeed I do not say except what is true.'" (Hasan) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"A man sought a mount from the Messenger of Allah who said: 'Indeed, I will let you ride on a she-camel's child.' So he said: 'O Messenger of Allah! What can ashe-camel's child do?' So the Messenger of Allah said: 'Are camels borne from other than she-camels? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"O possessor of two ears!" Mahmud said: "Abu Usamah said: 'He only meant it as a joke (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"It is enough sin for you that you never stop disputing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Do not argue with your brother, do not joke with him, and do not make a promise, only to not fulfill it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Muhammad bin Sirin narrated from Abu Hurairah - and I think he (narrated it from the Prophet) who said:"Love your beloved moderately, perhaps he becomes hated to you someday. And hate whom you hate moderately, perhaps he becomes your beloved someday (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever has a mustard seed's weight of pride (arrogance) in his heart, shall not be admitted into Paradise. And whoever has a mustard seed's weight of faith in his heart, shall not be admitted into the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Iylas bin Salamah bin Al-Akwa' narrated from his father that the Messenger of Allah said:"A man shall remain exalting himself until he is written among the tyrants, so that he suffers from their afflictions (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jubair bin Mut'im narrated from his father who said:"They (meaning the people in general) told me that I was proud, while I rode a donkey, wore a cloak, and I milked the sheep. And the Messenger of Allah said to me: "Whoever does these, then there is no pride (arrogance) in him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ad-Dardh narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Nothing is heavier on the believer's Scale on the Day of Judgment than good character. For indeed Allah, Most High, is angered by the shameless obscene person (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ad-Dardh narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Nothing is placed on the Scale that is heavier than good character. Indeed the person with good character will have attained the rank of the person of fasting and prayer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Wahb narrated that :'Abdullah bin Al-Mubarak explained good character, and then he said: "It is a smiling face, doing one's best in good, and refraining from harm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever visits the sick, or visits his brother in Allah (faith), a caller calls out: 'May you have goodness and livelihood be good, and may you dwell in an adobe in Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Al-Haya is from faith, and faith is in Paradise. Obscenity is from rudeness, and rudeness is in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Sarjis Al-Muzam narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Taking the good route is a part of the twenty-four parts of Prophethood (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah said to the Ashajj 'Abdul-Qais:"Indeed there are two traits in you that Allah loves: Forbearance, and deliberateness (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah-Muhaimin bin 'Abbas bin Sahl bin Sa'd As-Saidi narrated from his father, from his grandfather, who said that the Messenger of Allah said:"Deliberateness is from Allah, and haste is from the Ash-shaitan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ad-Darda narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Whoever was given his share of gentleness, then he has been given a share of good. And whoever has been prevented from his share of gentleness, then he has been prevented from his share of good (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated:"The Messenger of Allah sent Mu'adh [bin Jabal] to Yemen, and said: 'Beware of the supplication of the oppressed; for indeed there is no barrier between it and Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Abdullah Al-Jadali narrated:"I asked 'Aishah about the character of the Messenger of Allah. She said: 'He was not obscene, nor uttering obscenities, nor screaming in the markets, he would not return an evil with an evil, but rather he was pardoning and forgiving (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"The believer is not one who curses others (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"No young person honors an elder due to his age, except that Allah appoints for him one who will honor him at that age (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Indeed among the worst of people to Allah, on the Day of Judgment, is the two faced person (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hammam bin Al-Harith said:"Aman passed by Hudhaifah bin Al-Yaman and it was said to him: "This person conveys news about the people to the leaders.' So Hudaifah said: 'The Messenger of Allah said: 'The Qatat shall not enter paradise.'" (Sahih)Sufyan said: "The Qatat is the Nammam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.A.W) said:"Al-Haya' and Al-'Iy are two branches of faith, and Al-Badha and Al-Bayan are two branches of Hypocrisy (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that two men arrived during the time of the Messenger of Allah delivering an address. The people were amazed by their speech, so the Messenger of Allah turned to us and said:"Indeed there is magic in eloquence'-or- 'Indeed some eloquence is magic (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"Charity does not diminish wealth, Allah does not increase a man in anything for his pardoning (others) but in honor, and none humbles himself for Allah but Allah raises him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that Prophet said:"Oppression shall be darkness on the Day of Judgment (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) never criticized any food. if he liked it, he would eat it, and if not, he would leave it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"There is no forbearance except for the one who stumbled, and there is no wisdom except for the one who has experience." (Dai'f) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Usamah bin Zaid narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Whoever some good was done to him, and he says: 'May Allah reward you in goodness' then he has done the most that he can of praise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qatadah bin An-Nu'man narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"When Allah loves a slave, He prevents him from the world, just as one of you prevents his sick from water." Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uqbah bin Amir Al-Juhani narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Do not force your sick to eat, for indeed Allah, Blessed and Most High, provides them food and drink."(Dai'f) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Use this black seed. For indeed it contains a cure for every disease except As-Sam" And As-Sam is death (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated "Some people from Urainah arrived in Al-Madinah, and they were uncomfortable (with the climate). So the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) sent them some camels from charity. He told them:"Drink from their milk and Urine (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) forbade from cures that are Khabith." [Abu 'Elsa said:] Meaning poison (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Imran bin Husain narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) prohibited cauterization. He said:"We were tested (with severe medical condition) so we were cauterized, but we did not have good results, nor was it successful for us." Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"The Prophet (S.A.W) cauterized As'ad bin Zurarah for Shawkah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"The Prophet (S.A.W) would get cupped in his jugular veins and his upper back. And he would get cupped on the seventeenth (of the month), (or) the nineteenth, and (or) the twenty first (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Mas'ud said:"The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) narrated about the Night of Isra', saying that he did not pass an assembly of angels except that they ordered him: 'Order cupping among your Ummah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin 'Ubaidullah narrated that his grandmother [Salma] - who used to serve the The Prophet (S.A.W) said:"There was no wound nor cut on the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) but he would order me to put Hinna on it." Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aqqar bin Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah narrated from his father who said that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Whoever seeks treatment by cauterization, or with Ruqyah, then he has absolved himself of At-Tawakkul (reliance upon Allah) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that :the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) permitted Ruqyah for the scorpion sting, the(evil) eye, and An-Namlah. Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Imran bin Husain narrated that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said:"No Ruqyah except for the (evil) eye and the scorpion sting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated:"The Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) would seek refuge from the jinn and the (evil) eye of humans, until Al-Mu'awwidhatain were revealed. So when they were revealed he used them and left other than them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hayyah bin Habis At-Tamimi narrated:My father narrated that he heard the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) saying: "There is nothing to Al-Ham, and the eye is real (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"If there was anything that could overcome the Decree then the (evil) eye would overcome it, and when you are requested to wash (due to it) then wash (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said:"Al-'Ajwah is from Paradise and it contains a cure for poison. Truffles are a form of manna, and its liquid is a cure for the eye (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sa'eed bin Zaid narrated that the Prophet (S.A.W) said:"Truffles are a form of manna, and its liquid is a cure for the eye (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qatadah said:"It was narrated to me that Abu Hurairah said: 'I took three truffles, or five, or seven, and pressed them. Then I put their liquid in a bottle, and I used it on the eyes of a slave girl of mine so she was cured (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Masud Al-Ansari narrated:"The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) prohibited the price of a dog,the earnings of a fornicator (from fornication), and the payment made to the fortune-teller (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Rafi' bin Khadij narrated that the Prophet (S.A.W) said:"Fever is from the agitation of the Fire, so cool it with water (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said:"Fever is from the heat of the Hell, so cool it with water." Another chain reports similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated from Wahb's daughter - and she is Judamah - who said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) saying: 'I wanted to prohibit Al-Ghilah, but the Persians and Romans did it, and they did not kill their children (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated from Judamah bint Wahb Al-Asadiyyah that she heard the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) saying:"I intended to prohibit Al-Ghilah until I remembered that the Persians and Romans do that, without any harm to their children (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qatadah narrated from Abu 'Abdullah that Zaid bin Arqam said:"The Prophet (S.A.W) would acclaim oil and Wars for (the treatment of) pleurisy." Qatadah said: "And it is put in the mouth on the side which he is suffering (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Maimun Abu' Abdullah said:"I heard Zaid bin Arqam say: 'The Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) ordered us to use Qust Al-Bahri and oil to treat Pleurisy (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said:"The parable of the ill when he is cured and becomes healthy is that of hail that falls from the heavens in its purity and its color (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said:"When one of you visits the ill, then reassure him regarding his lifespan. Indeed that will not repel anything, but it will comfort his soul (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said:"Whoever leaves wealth then it is for his heirs, and whoever leaves poor dependents then it (the responsibility) is for me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said:"Learn the laws of inheritance and the Quran, and teach the people, for I am a mortal (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Harith narrated that 'Ali said:"The Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) judged that the children (sons and daughters) from the same mother and father inherit, not the sons from various mothers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said:"Give the shares of inheritance to those who are entitled to them. As for what remains, then it is for the closet male relative." Another chain reports similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud said, about the grandmother along with her daughter:"The Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) gave the first grandmother, along with her son, a sixth for them to consume while her son was living (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah bin Sahl bin Hunaif said:"'Umar bin Al-Khattab sent me with a letter to Abu'Ubaidah (saying) that The Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said : 'Allah and His Messenger are responsible for the one who has no patron. And the maternal uncle inherits from the one who has no heirs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said:"The maternal uncle inherits from the one who has no heirs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that a freed slave of the Prophet (s.a.w) fell from foliage on a date-palm and died. So the Prophet (S.A.W) said:"See if he has any heirs." They said: "No." He said: 'Pay it to someone among the people of the town (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that :a man died during the time of the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) ,and he did not leave any heirs except for a slave that he had freed. So the Prophet gave him his inheritance (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Usamah bin Zaid narrated that the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said:"The Muslim does not inherit from the disbeliever, nor the disbeliever from the Muslim." Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that the Prophet(S.A.W) said:"The people of two religions do not inherit from each other (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet(S.A.W) said:"The murderer will not inherit (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said:"Any man who fornicates with a free woman, or a slave woman, then the child born from Zina does not inherit, nor is it inherited from (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Amr bin Shu'aib narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said:"The one who inherits the Wala is the one who inherits the wealth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Wathilah bin Al-Asqa' narrated that the Messenger of Allah(S.A.W) said:"The woman collects three inheritance: Whomever she freed, whomever she found, and the child for which she made Li'an (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) said:"It is not right for a Muslim man to spend two nights, having what he would will, without having his will written with him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Talhah bin Musarrif said:"I said to Ibn Abi Awfi: Did the Messenger of Allah (S.A.W) leave a will?' He said: 'No' I said: 'How is the will written, and how was it enjoined upon the people?' He said: 'It was ordered in the Book of Allah, Most High (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Harith narrated from 'Ali:"The Prophet (s.a.w) judged with the debt before the will, and you people recite the will before the debt (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salman narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Nothing turns back the Decree except supplication, and nothing increases the life-span except righteousness (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"When Allah wants good for a slave, He puts him in action." It was said: "How does he put him in action O Messenger Of Allah?" He said: "By making him meet up with the righteous deeds before death (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:'A slave (of Allah) shall not believe until he believes in Al-Qadar, its good and its bad, such that he knows that what struck him would not have missed him, and that what missed him would not have struck him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Matar bin 'Ukamis narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"When Allah decrees that a slave (of His) is to die in a land, He makes him have some need from it." Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu 'Azzah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"When Allah decrees that a slave (of His) is to die in a land, He makes him have some need from it." Or, he said: "In it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"There are two groups in my Ummah for whom there is no share in Islam: The Murji'ah and the Qadariyyah." Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mutarrif bin 'Abdullah bin Ash-Shikh-khir narrated from his father, from the Prophet (s.a.w), who said:'Ibn Adam was fashioned with ninety-nine calamities surrounding him, if the calamities miss him, he is stricken by decrepitude until he dies (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated from the Prophet (s.a.w):"There will be a collapse of the earth and transformation in my Ummah, and that is for those who deny Al-Qadar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Allah decreed the measures fifty-thousand years before He created the Heavens and the earth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin As-Sa'ib bin Yazid narrated from his father, from his grandfather who said:"The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said: 'Let one of you not take his brother's staff, neither in play nor seriousness. Whoever took his brother's staff, then let him return it to him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Whoever points a piece of iron at his brother, the angels curse him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated :"The Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) prohibited passing an unsheathed sword (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Whoever prays Subh, then he is under the protection of Allah's covenant, so do not infringe at all upon Allah's covenant (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Allah's Hand is with the Jama'ah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:'Indeed Allah will not gather my Ummah " - or he said: "[Muhammad's]Ummah upon deviation, and Allah's Hand is over the Jama'ah, and whoever deviates, he deviates to the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hudhaifah bin Al-Yaman narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"By the One in Whose Hand is my soul! Either you command good and forbid evil, or Allah will soon send upon you a punishment from Him, then you will call upon Him, but He will not respond to you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hudhaifah bin Al-Yaman narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"By the One in Whose Hand is my soul! The Hour will not be established until you fight your A'immah, and you strike each other with your swords, and your world will be inherited by the evilest among you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Salamah narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) mentioned the army that the earth would swallow, so Umm Salamah said:'Perhaps there are those among them who are averse to it." He said: "They will be resurrected on their intentions (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Indeed, among the greatest types of Jihad is a just statement before a tyrannical ruler (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"There shall be a Fitnah of extermination of the 'Arabs. Its fighters are in the Fire. During it, the tongue is stronger then the sword (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar said:"The moon split during the time of the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w), so the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said: 'Bear witness (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated "The Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:'In the end of this Ummah there will be a collapse, transformation, and Qadhf."' She said :"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Will they be destroyed while they are righteous among them?' He said: 'Yes, when evil is dominant (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Usaid bin Hudair said:"A man from Ansar said, 'O Messenger of Allah! You appointed so-and-so and did not appoint me. So, the Prophet(s.a.w) said, 'After me you will see preferential treatment, so be patient till you meet me at Al-Hawd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"Indeed, after me you will see preferential treatment, and matters that you dislike." They said: "Then what do you command us[O Messenger of Allah!]" He said: "Give them their rights, and ask Allah for yours (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"Do not revert to disbelief after me, some of you striking the necks of others (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Musa narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"Indeed after you there will be days in which knowledge shall be raised up and Al-Harj shall abound." They said: "O Messenger of Allah(s.a.w)! What is Al-Harj?" He said: "Killing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ma'qil bin Yasar narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"Worship during Al-Harj is like Hijrah to me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thawban narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"When the sword is imposed on my Ummah, it shall not be removed from it until the Day of Resurrection (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Musa narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said, about the Fitnah:"Break your bows during it, cut their strings and stick to the depths of your homes, and be like Adam's son (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The Hour will not be established until 'Allah, Allah is not said on the earth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hudhaifah bin Al-Yaman narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The Hour will not be established until the happiest of people in the world is Luka' bin Luka (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Mustawrid bin Shaddad Al-Fihri reported that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"I was sent in advance of the Hour, so that I precede it like this precedes this." (Indicating) with his index and middle fingers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The Hour and I were dispatched like these two" - and Abu Dawud(a narrator) indicated with his index and middle fingers- so, how much more(in length) is one then the other (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"The Hour shall not be established until you fight a people whose sandals are made out of hair, and the Hour shall not be established until you fight a people whose faces will look like shields coated with leather (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"When Kisra is ruined, there will be no Kisra after him, and when Caesar is ruined, there will be no Caesar after him. By the One in Whose Hand is my soul! You shall spend their treasures in Allah's cause (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salim bin 'Abdullas [bin 'Umar] narrated from his father, that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"A fire is coming from Hadramawt- before the Day of Judgement- to gather the people." They said: "O Messenger of Allah! What do you order us?" He said: "Stick to Ash-Sham (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The Hour shall not be established until nearly thirty imposters, Dajjal appear, each of them claiming that he is the Messenger of Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"In Thaqif there will be a great liar and destroyer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Imran bin Husain narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The best of people are my generation, then those who follow them. Then, after them a people will come who increase in fatness, loving fatness, giving testimony before they are asked for it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The night and the day shall not go away until a man called Jahjah among the Mawali reigns (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The world shall not pass away until a man from the people of my family rules the Arabs whose name agrees with my name (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"By the One in Whose Hand is my soul! Ibn Mariam shall soon descend among you, judging justly. He shall break the cross, kill the pig, remove the Jizyah, and wealth will be so bountiful that there will be none to accept it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"You shall fight the Jews. You will gain such control over them, that a rock will say: 'O Muslim! This Jew is behind me so kill him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr As-Siddiq said:"The Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) narrated to us, saying: 'The Dajjal shall emerge from a land in the east called Khurasan. He is followed by a people whom appear as if their f aces are shields coated with leather (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bahriyyah, a Companion of Mu'adh bin Jabal narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"The great Malhamah, the conquest of Constantinople, and the coming of the Dajjal occur in (the span of) seven months (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik said:"Constantinople will be conquered with the coming of the Hour (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) was asked about the Dajjal, so he said:"Lo! Indeed your Lord is not blind in one eye, and indeed he is blind in one eye; his right eye is as if it is a floating grape (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The Dajjal will come to Al-Madinah to find the angels have surrounded it. Neither the plague nor the Dajjal will enter it, if Allah wills (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mujammi' bin Jariyah Al-Ansari said:"I heard the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) saying: 'Eisa bin Maryam will kill the Dajjal at the gate of Ludd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It was narrated that Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said: 'There was no Prophet except that he warned his Ummah of the liar who is blind in one eye. Lo! He is blind in one eye, and your Lord is not blind in one eye. Written between his eyes is: Kafir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It was narrated from Jabir, that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"There is no soul born upon the earth – meaning today – upon whom will come one hundred years." (Sahih) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It was narrated from Hudhaifah, that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"It is not for the believer to humiliate himself." They said: "How does he humiliate himself?" He said: "By taking on a trial which he can not bear (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It was narrated from Ibn 'Abbas, that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"Whoever resides in the deserts, he becomes ignorant, whoever follows game, he becomes heedless, and whoever comes to the door of the Sultan, he will suffer a Fitnah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"There shall come upon the people a time in which the one who is patient upon his religion will be like the one holding onto a burning ember (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It was narrated from 'Abdullah bin Dinar, that Ibn 'Umar said:"The Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said: 'When my Ummah walks in a proud march, and its servants are the children of kings, children of Persians and Romans, the evilest of them will be set over the best of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"You are in a time when whoever abandons a tenth of what he has been ordered, then he is ruined. Then, there will come a time in which whoever does a tenth of what he has been ordered shall be saved (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) stood on the Minbar and said:"The land of Fitan is there" and he pointed to the east, meaning: "Where the sun rises from the horn of Shaitan" or he said: "The horn of the sun (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"Black standards will come from Khurasan, nothing shall turn them back until they are planted in Jerusalem (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubadah bin As-Samit narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"The dreams of the believer are a portion of the forty-six portions of Prophet-hood (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"The most truthful of dreams are in the last hours of the night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It is narrated from 'Ubadah bin As-Samit, who said:"[I asked] the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) about For them are glad tidings in the life of the present world. He said: 'This refers to the righteous dreams which the Muslim sees or which are seen about him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Whoever saw me (in a dream) while sleeping then he has indeed seen me. For indeed the Shaitan can not resemble me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Waki' bin 'Udus narrated from Abu Razin that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:" The Muslim's dreams are a portion of the forty-six portions of Prophet-hood. And it is (as if it is) on the leg of a bird, as long as it is not spoken of. But when it is spoken of it falls (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu 'Abdur-Rahman(As-Sulami) narrated from 'Ali and I think he said:" From the Prophet(s.a.w), who said: "Whoever lies about his dream, he will be required to knot barely kernels on the Day of Judgement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(another chain) from Abu 'Abdur-Rahman As-Sulami who narrated from 'Ali from the Prophet with similar narrations. [He said:This narration is Hasan.] There are narration on this topic from Ibn 'Abbas, Abu Hurairah, Abu Shuraih and Wathilah bin Al-Asqa (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Whoever lies about having a dream, he will be required to knot two barely kernels together on the Day Of Judgment., and he will never be able to knot them together (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"While I was sleeping , I was brought a cup of milk and I drank from it. Then I gave what I had left to 'Umar bin Al-Khattab." They said; "How did you interpret it O Messenger of Allah?" He said: "Knowledge (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah bin Sahl bin Hunaif narrated from Abu Sa'eed al-Khudri that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:similar in meaning (to no) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Shall l not inform you of the best of witnesses? The one who comes with his testimony before being asked for it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Malik in which he said:Ibn Abi 'Amrah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zaid bin Khalid Al-Juhani narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"The best of witnesses is the one who gives his testimony before being asked for it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ayman bin Khuraim narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) stood to give a Khutbah and said:"O you people False witness is tantamount to Shirk with Allah" Then the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w)recited: So shun the Rijs of the idols, and shun false speech (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Two favors that many of the people squander are health and free time (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Increase in remembrance of the severer of pleasures." Meaning death (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ubadah bin As-Samit narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Whoever loves to meet Allah, Allah loves to meet him. Whoever is averse to meeting Allah, Allah is averse to meeting him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"If you knew what I know, then you would laugh little and you would cry much (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Indeed a man may utter a statement that he does not see any harm in, but for which he will fall seventy autumns in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Bahz bin Hakim narrated from his father, from his grandfather that Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Woe to the one who talks about something to make the people laugh, in which he lies. Woe to him! Woe to him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Indeed among the excellence of a person's Islam is that he leaves what does not concern him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin Al-Husain narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Surely, of the excellence of a person's Islam is that he leaves what does not concern him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Sa'd narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"If the world to Allah was equal to a mosquito's wing, then He would not allow the disbeliever to have a sip of water from it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Lo! Indeed the world is cursed. What is in it is cursed, except for remembrance of Allah, what is conducive to that, the knowledgeable person and the learning person (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Qa'is bin Abi Hazim said:I heard Mustawrid, a member of Banu Fihr, saying: The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said: "The world compared to the Hereafter is but like what one of you gets when placing his finger into the sea, so look at what you draw from it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"The world is a prison for the believer and Paradise for the disbeliever (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah [bin Mas'ud] narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Do not take to the estate, such that you become desirous of the world (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Busr narrated that a Bedouin said:"O Messenger of Allah! Who is the best of the people?" He said: "He whose life is long and his deeds are good."There are narrations on this topic from Abu Hurairah and Jabir (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"The lifespan for my Ummah is from sixty years to seventy [years] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ka'b bin 'Iyad narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Indeed there is a fitnah for every Ummah, and the Fitnah for my Ummah is wealth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:"If the Son of Adam had a valley of gold, then he would still like to have a second . And nothing fills his mouth but dust, Allah turns to whoever repents (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"The heart of an old man remains young because of love for two things: Long life , and much wealth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"The Son Of Adan grows old, but two things keep him young: Desire for life and desire for wealth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uthman bin 'Affan narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"There is no right for the son of Adam in other than these things: A house which he lives in, a garment which covers his nakedness, and Jilf (a piece of bread) and water (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Al-Khattab narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"If you were to rely upon Allah with the required reliance, then He would provide for you just as a bird is provided for, it goes out in the morning empty, and returns full (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"He has succeeded who accepts Islam, and is provided with what is sufficient and is made content by Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Fadalah bin 'Ubaid narrated that he heard the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) saying:"Glad tidings to whoever is guided to Islam, his livelihood was sufficient and he was satisfied (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"The poor Muhajirin will enter Paradise before the rich among them by five hundred years (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"The poor are admitted into Paradise before the rich, by five hundres years, (i.e.) half a day (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"The poor Muslims are admitted into Paradise before their rich by half a day. And that is five hundred years (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin 'Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"The poor Muslims are admitted into Paradise before their rich by forty autumns (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) did not eat his fill of barley bread on two consecutive days until he was taken (died) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"Neither the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) nor his family, ate their fill of wheat bread for three consecutive days until he parted the world (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah narrated:"There was never a surplus of barley bread for the inhabitants of the house of the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas said:" The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) would spend many consecutive nights and his family did not have supper, and most of the time their bread was barley bread (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated the the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"O Allah! Make the sustenance of Muhammad's family nourishing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated:"The Prophet (s.a.w) would not store anything for the morrow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas said:"The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) never ate on a table, nor did he eat thin bread until he died (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Salamah bin 'Abdur-Rahman narrated that:the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) went out one day accompained by Abu Bakr and 'Umar. And he mentioned similar to Hadith( no 2369) in meaning, but he did not mention "from Abu Hurairah" in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated from Abu Talhah who said:"We complained to the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) of hunger and we raised(our garments ) from our stomachs (exposing) a stone (on each of us). So the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) raised (his garment exposing) two stones (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Simak bin Harb said:"I heard An-Nu'man bin Bashir saying: 'Do you (people) not have what you wish of food and drink?' I have seen your Prophet and he did not have even enough daqal (dry dates) to fill his stomach (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Richness is not having many possessions, but richness is being content with oneself (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Cursed be the slave of the Dinar, cursed be the slave of the Dirham (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Ka'b bin Malik Al-Ansari narrated from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Two wolves free among sheep are no more destructive to them than a man's desire for wealth and honor is to his religion (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"A man is upon the religion of his friend, so let one of you look at whom he befriends (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah (S.a.w) said:"Three follow the deceased, two of them return, and one remains. He is followed by his family, his wealth, and his deeds. So his family and his wealth returns, and his deeds remain (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:" A man shall be with whoever he loves, and for him shall be what he has earned (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Safwan bin Assal narrated that a Bedouin with a loud voice and said:" O Muhammad! A man loves the people but does not catch up to them (in deeds)." So the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said: "A man shall be with whomever he loves (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Indeed Allah Most High says: 'I am as My slave thinks of Me, and I am with him when He calls upon Me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
An-Nawas bin Sama'an narrated that a man came asking the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) about righteousness and sin. So the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Righteouness is good behaviour, and sin is what fluctuates in your chest, and you would hate that the people discovered it about you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mu'adh binJabal narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, said: 'Those who love each other for the sake of My Majesty shall be upon podiums of light, and they will be admired by the Prophets and the martyrs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ma'mar said:"A man stood and praised one of the 'Amirs so Al-Miqdad bin Al-Aswad threw dust in his face and said: 'The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) ordered us to throw dust in the faces of those who praise others (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) ordered us to throw dut in the mouths of those who praise others (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"Do not accompany except a believer, and do not serve your food except to one with Taqwa (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah said:"I have not seen ailment effecting anyone worse than upon the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"Trials will not cease afflicting the believing man and the believing woman in their self, children, and wealth, until they meet Allah without having any sin (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) said:"Indeed Allah [Most High] said: 'When I take My slave's sight in the world, then there shall be no reward for him with Me except Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah (narrated from) the Prophet(s.a.w) who said:"Allah, Mighty and Sublime is He, said: 'For whomever I take his sight, and he is patient and seeking a reward, I shall not be satisfied with any reward for him less than Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Uqbah bin 'Amir narrated:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! What is the means to salvation?' He said: 'That you control your tongue, suffice yourself your house, and cry over your sins (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated (that the Prophet s.a.w) said:"When the son of Adam wakes up in the morning, all of his body parts bow to the tongue and say: 'Fear Allah regarding us, we are only part of you. If you are straight we are straight and if you are crooked we are crooked (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Sa'd narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Whoever guarantees for me what is between his jaws and what is between his legs, I shall guarantee Paradise for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"For whomever Allah protects against the evil of what is between his jaws and the evil of what is between his legs, he shall enter Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sufyan bin 'Abdullah Ath-Thaqafi said:I said: "O Messenger of Allah! Inform me about a matter that I may hold fast to." He said: 'Say: My Lord is Allah, then be steadfast.' I said: "O Messenger of Allah! What do you fear most for me?" So he took hold of his tongue and said: 'This (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Do not talk too much without remembrance of Allah. Indeed excessive talking without remembrance of Allah hardens the heart. And indeed the furthest of people from Allah is the harsh-hearted (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umm Habibah, the wife of the Prophet (s.a.w), narrated from the Prophet (s.a.w) who said:"The son of Adam's speech is against him not for him, except for commanding good, or forbidding evil, or remembrance of Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Bahz bin Hakim narrated from his father, from his grandfather, that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"You shall be gathered walking, riding, and dragged upon your faces." There is a narration on this topic from Abu Hurairah. [Abu 'Eisa said:] This Hadith is Hasan [Sahih] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of allah (s.a.w)said:"My intercession is for the people who committed the major sins in my Ummah." Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah narrated the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"My Lord promised me that seventy thousand of my Ummah shall be admitted into Paradise without a reckoning against them nor any punishment. With every thousand, are seventy thousand and three measures from His measures (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Hasan Al-Basri said:"The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said: 'On the Day of Judgement, 'Uthman bin 'Affan will intercede for (an amount) the likes of Rabi'ah and Mudar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Indeed, at my Hawd there are drinking vessels as numerous as the stars in the heavens (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah narrated the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w)said:"Indeed there is a Hawd for every Prophet, and indeed they compete to see which of them has the most arriving at it. Indeed I hope that mine will be the one with the most arrival (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Whoever fears traveling at night - and whoever travels at night reaches his destination - Allah provides him with the most precious of goods, and indeed Allah's goods are but Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hanzalah Al-Usaiyyidi narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"If you would (always) be as you are with me, then the angels would shade you with their wings." Other chains report similar narrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w)said:"The son of Adam grows old. But two things keep him young: Desire for life and desire for wealth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mutarrif bin 'Abdullah bin Ash-Shikh-khir narrated from his father from the Prophet(s.a.w) who said:"The case of the son of Adam is such that he is surrounded by ninety-nine calamities, if the calamities miss him, he falls into decrepitude (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated:"'Umar bin Al-Khattab informed me, saying: 'I entered upon the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) and saw him reclining upon a mat woven from fibers, and I could see the impressions it left upon his side (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf said:"We were tested along with the Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) by adversity, so we were patient, then we were tested after him with prosperity, but we were not patient (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"We had a cloth which had some pictures on it as a curtain on my door. The Messenger of Allah(s.a.w) saw it and said: 'Remove it, for it reminds me of the world.'" She said: "We had a piece of velvet that had patches of silk on it which we used to wear (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) had a leather cushion stuffed with palm fibres which he would lean on (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Maisarah narrated from 'Aishah that they had slaughtered a sheep, so the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"What remains of it?" She said: "Nothing remains of it except its shoulder." He said: "All of it remains except its shoulder (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:"We, the family of Muhammad, would go for a month without kindling a fire, having only water and dates (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu 'Uthman An-Nahdi narrated from Abu Hurairah that they (the Companions) were suffering from hunger so the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) gave them each a date (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Yahya Al-Bakka' narrated from Ibn 'Umar who said:"A man belched in the presence of the Prophet(s.a.w), so he said: 'Restain your belching from us. For indeed those who are filled most in the world will be the hungriest on the Day of Judgement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sufyan Ath-Thawri narrated:From Abu Hamzah, (who said): "From Ibrahim An-Nakha'i who said: 'All buildings and concerns for them will be against you.' I said: 'What do you think about what one can not do without?' He said: 'There is no reward for that nor harm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Shahib bin Bashir narrated from Anas bin Malik that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"All expenditures are in Allah's Cause, except for buildings, for there is no good in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"The one who eats and is grateful is like the status of the patient fasting person (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Shall I not inform you of whom the Fire is unlawful and he is unlawful for the Fire? Every person who is near (to people), amicable, and easy (to deal with) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aswad bin Yazid narrated:"I said to Aishah: 'What would the Prophet (s.a.w) do when he entered his house?' She said: 'He would busy himself with serving his family, then when (the time for) Salat was due he would stand (to go) for it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"A man among those before you went out arrogantly in a Hullah of his. So Allah ordered the earth to take him. He remains sinking[into it]" - or he said - "He will remain sinking into it until the Day of Judgement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Sahl bin Mu'ad bin Anas narrated from his father, that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Whoever suppresses his rage, while he is able to exact it, Allah will call him before the heads of creation [on the Day of Judgement] so that he can chose whichever of the Hur he wishes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr bin Al-Munkadir narrated from Jabir that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"There are three (characteristics) for which whomever has them,Allah will expose His side,and admit him to Paradise:Being courteous to the guest,kind to parents,and doing good for slaves (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Every son of Adam sins, and the best of the sinners are the repentant (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, then let him honor his guest. And whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day, then let him say what is good or remain silent." Other chains report similar narrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin 'Amr narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Whoever is silent, he is saved (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"I do not like to talk about anyone, even if I were to get this or that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Musa said:"The Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) was asked: 'Which of the Muslims is the most virtuous?' He said: 'The one whom the Muslims are safe from his tongue and his hand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Khalid bin Ma'dan narrated from Mu'adh bin Jabal that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Whoever shames his brother for a sin, he shall not die until he (himself) commits it." (One of the narrators) Ahmad said: They said: 'From a sin he has repented from (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Wathilah bin Al-Asqa' narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Do not rejoice over the mishaps of your brother so that Allah has mercy on him and subjects you to trials (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Beware of evil with each other, for indeed it is the Haliqah." [The meaning of his saying]: "Süw'a Dhãt Al-Bain (evil with each other) is enmity and hatred, and his saying: "The Haliqah" [it is said] that it severs the religion (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakrah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"There is no sin more worthy of Allah hastening the punishment upon its practitioner in the world – along with what is in store for him in the Hereafter – than tyranny and severing the ties of kinship.” (Sahih) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Look to one who is lower than you, and do not look to one who is above you. For indeed that is more worthy(so that you will) not belittle Allah's favors upon you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said:"None of you believes until he loves for his brother what he loves for himself (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that a man said:"O Messenger of Allah! Shall I tie it and rely(upon Allah), or leave it loose and rely(upon Allah)?" He said: "Tie it and rely(upon Allah)." Other chains report similar narrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Hasan bin 'Ali said:"I remember that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said: 'Leave what makes you in doubt for what does not make you in doubt. The truth brings tranquility while falsehood sows doubt.'" Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Muhammad bin Al-Munkadir narrated from Jabir, that a man was mentioned in the presence of the Prophet (s.a.w) for his worship and striving in it, and another man was mentioned for his cautious piety. So the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Nothing is equal to cautious piety (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Verily, in Paradise there is a tree, a rider will travel in it's shade for a hundred years." Other chains report similar narrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"In Paradise there is a tree, a rider will travel in its shade for a hundred years without reaching an end." He said: "And that is the extended shade (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"There is not a tree in Paradise except that its tree is of gold (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"In Paradise, there are a hundred levels, between every two levels is (the distance of) a hundred years (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:"Indeed there are a hundred levels in Paradise, if all of the People of Paradise were to be gathered in one of them, it would have sufficed them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"The believer shall be given in paradise such and such strength in intercourse ." it was said: "O Messenger of Allah! And will he able to do that?" He said: "He will be given the strength of a hundred (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated from the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) that he said:"The people of Paradise are without body hair, Murd, with Kuhl(on their eyelids), their youth does not come to an end, and their clothes do not wear out (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated concerning His (Allah's) statement "And couches, elevated ..." (Al Wa'qiah 56:34) that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Their elevation is indeed like what is between the heavens and the earth, a distance of five-hundred years (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Mu'adh bin Jabal narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"The people of Paradise shall enter Paradise without body hair, Murd, with Kuhl on their eyes, thirty years of age or thirty-three years (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Buraidah narrated from his father that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w)said:"The people of Paradise are a hundred and twenty rows, eighty of them are from this nation, and forty are from the rest of the nations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Indeed in Paradise there is a market in which there is no buying nor selling- except for images of men and women. So whenever a man desires an image, he enters it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Paradise is surrounded by hardships, and the Fire is surrounded by desires (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
From Yahya bin Abi Kathir, concerning His (Allah's), the Mighty and Glorious, statement:"Then they shall be in gardens living luxuriously" He said: "Listening."And the meaning of listening is similar to what has been mentioned in the Hadith that Al-Hur Al-'Ein raise their voices (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"The Euphrates shall soon uncover a treasure of gold, so whoever witnesses it, let him not take anything from it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet(s.a.w) said similar to it, except that he said,:"uncover a pot of gold (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hakim bin Mu'awiyah narrated from his father, that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Indeed in Paradise there is a sea of water, and a sea of honey,and a sea of milk, and a sea of wine, then the rivers shall split off afterwards (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Mas'ud narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Hell will be brought forth on that Day (of Resurrection) having seventy thousand bridles, and with every handle will be seventy thousand angels dragging it'". Other chains report similar narrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Prophet SAW said:"As-Saud is a mountain in the Fire, a disbeliever will be raised upon it for seventy autumns and then similarly he will fall down it, forever." (Daif) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Indeed a disbeliever's skin will be forty-two forearm lengths thick, his molar teeth will be like Uhud (mountain), and his sitting place in Hell will be like what is between Makkah and Al-Madinah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated a Marfu' narration:"The molar teeth of the disbeliever will be like Uhud (mountain) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:'Indeed the disbeliever's tongue will be stretched a Farsakh or two Farsakh, such that the people will walk upon it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated regarding His (Allah's) statement:Kal Muhl, the Prophet (s.a.w)said: 'Like boiling oil, such that when it is brought close to his face, the skin of his face will fall off into it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"And therein they will grimace in displace lips. -He will be grilled by the Fire until his upper lip is folded up reaching the middle of his head, And his bottom lip pains down, until it hits his navel (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"This fire of yours is one part from seventy parts of the fire of Hell, each part of it is like the heat of this one (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"The Fire was kindled for one thousand years until it reddened, then it was kindled for one thousand years until it whitened, then it was kindled for one thousand years until it became blackened, so it is dark black (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas said that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:"Allah will say: 'Remove from the Fire whoever remembered Me one day, or feared Me while in a state of sinning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Whoever had the weight of a speck of faith in his heart will depart from the Fire." Abu Sa'eed said: "Whoever has doubt then let him recite: Indeed Allah does not deal unjustly with even the weight of a speck (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Imran bin Husain narrated that the Prophet (s.a.w) said:'A group from my Ummah will depart from the Fire through my intercession, and they will be called the Jahannamiyyun (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (s.a.w) said:"I have not seen the likes of the Fire in which the one who runs from it sleeps, nor the likes of Paradise in which the one who seeks it sleeps (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn 'Abbas narrated that the Messenger Of Allah (s.a.w) said:"I looked into Paradise and I saw that the most of its people were the poor; and I looked into the Fire and I saw that most of its people were women (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Imran bin Husain narrated that the Messenger Of Allah (s.a.w) said:" I looked into the Fire and I saw that most of its people are women, and I looked into Paradise and I saw that most of its people were the poor." Other chains report similar narrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
An-Numan bin Bashir narrated that the Messenger Of Allah (s.a.w) said:"Indeed the person among the inhabitants of the Fire punished least [on the Day of Judgment] is a man who has two coals beneath his feet, which cause his brain to boil." Other chains report similar narrations (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Islam is based upon five: the testimony of La Ilaha Illallah, and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, the establishment of the Salat, giving the Zakat, fasting (the month of) Ramadan, and performing Hajj to the House (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed among the believers with the most complete faith is the one who is the best in conduct, and the most kind to his family (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Faith has seventy-some odd doors, the lowest of which is removing something harmful from the road, and its highest is the statement 'La Ilaha Illallah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed by a man and he was chastising his brother about modesty, so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Al-Haya' is part of faith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Between disbelief and faith is abandoning the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-A'mash:Similar to the previous chain and said: "Between a slave and Shirk or disbelief is abandoning the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Between a slave of Allah and disbelief is abandoning the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abdullah bin Buraidah narrated from his father:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The covenant between us and them is the Salat, so whoever abandons it he has committed disbelief (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abdullah bin Shaqiq Al-'Uqayli:The Companions of Muhammad (ﷺ) didn't consider leaving anything to be disblief except for the Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Abbas bin Abdul-Muttalib:that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: "Whoever is pleased with Allah as (his) Lord, and Islam as (his) religion, and Muhammad as (his) Prophet, then he has tasted the sweetness of faith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The adulterer is not a believer while he is committing adultery, and the thief is not a believer while he is stealing, but there is a chance for repentance; (if he repents, Allah will accept the repentance) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Muslim is the one from (the harm of) whose tongue and hand (other) Muslims are safe, and the believer is the one with whom the people trust their blood and their wealth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari:that the Prophet (ﷺ) was asked: "Which of the Muslims is most virtuous?" He said: "The one from (the harm of) whose tongue and hand (other) Muslims are safe (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed Islam began as something strange and it will return to being strange as it began. So Tuba is for the strangers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The sign of a hypocrite is that whenever he speaks he lies, and whenever he makes a promise he does not fulfill it, and if he is entrusted he betrays (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whenever a man makes a promise and he intends to fulfill it, but he does not fulfill it, then there is no burden upon him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A Muslim's fighting his brother is disbelief, and verbally abusing him is disobedience (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Verbally abusing a Muslim is disobedience and fighting him is disbelief (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:Ibn 'Umar narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever says to his brother 'disbeliever' then it will have settled upon one of them." Sahih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Jews split into seventy-one sects, or seventy-two sects, and the Christians similarly, and my Ummah will split into seventy-three sects (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Dharr:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Jibril came to me and gave me glad tidings, that whoever dies without associating anything with Allah, then he will enter Paradise. I said: "Even if he commits adultery and theft?" He said: "Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "For whomever Allah wants good, he gives him understanding in the religion (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever takes a path upon which to obtain knowledge, Allah makes the path to Paradise easy for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever goes out seeking knowledge, then he is in Allah's cause until he returns (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Sakhbarah:narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever seeks knowledge, he is atoning for what has passed (of sins while doing so) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever is asked about some knowledge that he knows, then he conceals it, he will be bridled with bridle of fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Ka'b bin Malik:from his father that he heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: "Whoever seeks knowledge to contend with the scholars, or to use it to argue with the fools, and to have people's faces turn towards him, then he shall be admitted to the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever learns knowledge for other than (the sake of) Allah, or intends by it other than Allah, then let him take his seat in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah [bin Mas'ud]:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever lies upon me, then let him take his seat in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not lie upon me, for indeed whoever lies upon me, he will be admitted into the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever lies upon me" - I think he said - "purposely, then let him take his seat in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Mughirah bin Shu'bah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever narrates a Hadith from me which he knows is a lie, then he is one of the liars (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:"We sought permission from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) for writing but he did not permit us (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave an address. So he mentioned a story in the Hadith, and Abu Shah said: 'Have it written for me O Messenger of Allah! So the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Write it for Abu Shah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Hammam bin Munabbih:that the heard Abu Hurairah say: "None of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) narrated more Ahadith from him than me, except 'Abdullah bin 'Amr. For he used to write them down and I did not write (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Convey from me, even if it be an Ayah, and narrate from the Children of Isra'il, and there is no harm, And whoever lies upon me purposely, then let him take his seat in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa Al-Ash'ari:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Intercede, and you will be rewarded, and Allah will fulfill what He wills upon the tongue of His Prophet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "No soul is wrongfully taken except that some of the burden of its blood is upon the son of Adam, because he was the first to institute murder (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Leave me with what I left you. When I narrated a Hadith to you, then take it from me. The people before you were only destroyed by their excessive questioning and disagreeing with their Prophets (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Salih reported a narration from Abu Hurairah:"It shall soon be that people are beating the livers of camels (meaning that they are hastening and traveling upon them) seeking knowledge. But they will not find anyone more knowledgeable than a scholar of Al-Madinah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Faqih is harder on Ash-Shaitan than a thousand worshipers (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Two things will not be together in a hypocrite: Good manners, and Fiqh in the religion (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The believer will never be satisfied with the good he hears, until he ends up in Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The wise statement is the lost property of the believer, so wherever he finds it, then he is more worthy of it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that Uman bin Al-Khattab said: "I sought permission (to enter) from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) three times, then he permitted me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Salamah:that 'Aishah narrated to him that he Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to her: "Indeeed Jibril has sent Salam to you." She said: "And upon him be peace and the mercy of Allah and His Blessings (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Umamah:"They said: 'O Messenger of Allah! When two men meet, which of them initiates the Salam?' He said: 'The nearest of them to Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Asma bint Yazid:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) passed through the Masjid one day, and a group of women were sitting, so he motioned his hand with the Salam - 'Abdul-Hamid (one of the narrators) gestured with his hand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'O my little son! When you enter upon your family then give the Salam, it will be a blessing for you and upon the inhabitants of your house (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Salam is before talking." With this chain it has been reported that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Do not invite anyone to the food until the Salam is given (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not precede the Jews and the Christians with the Salam. And if one of you meets them in the path, then force them to its narrow portion (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Usamah bin Zaid:that the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by a gathering in which the Muslims and the Jews were mixed, so he gave the Salam to them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Hasan:from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The rider gives the Salam to the walking person, and the walking person to the sitting person and the few to the many." Ibn Al-Muthanna added in his narration: "And the young one gives the Salam to the elder (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Hammam bin Munabbih:from Abu Hurairah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The young one gives the Salam to the elder, the one passing the by to the one sitting and the few to the many (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Fadalah bin 'Ubaid:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The horseman gives Salam to the walking person, the walking person to the one standing and the few to the many (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When one of you arrives at the gathering, then give the Salam, and if he is given a place to sit, then let him sit. Then when he stands, let him give the Salam, the first is more worthy than the last (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) was in his house when a man looked in at him, so he lunged towards him with an arrow head, so the man backed up (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"I sought permission to enter upon the Prophet (ﷺ) regarding a debt my father owed, so he said: 'Who is this?' I said: 'Me.' He said: 'Me, me.'As if he disliked that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:that the Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited them from returning to the women from a journey during the night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When one of you writes something, then let him Yutarrib (smeared with dust to dry the ink) it, for that is more conducive to the need (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit:"I entered upon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) while there was a scribe in front of him, and I heard him saying: 'Put the pen on your ear, for that is more conducive to the scribe remembering (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"Before he died, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had written to Kisra, Ceasar, An-Najashi, and to every tyrant calling them to Allah. This An-Najashi is not the one that the Prophet (ﷺ) performed to the funeral Salat for (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"When the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) wanted to write to the foreigners, it was said to him: 'The foreigners do not accept a letter unless it has a seal.' So he had a ring made." He said: "It is as if I am now looking at its whiteness in his hand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that a man gave the Salam to the Prophet (ﷺ) while he was urinating, but the Prophet (ﷺ) did not return the Salam to him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"When the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would give the Salam he would do so three times, and when he would say a statement, he would say it three times (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samurah:"When we went to the Prophet (ﷺ), each of us would sit wherever he wound up at (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara bin 'Azib:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "No two Muslims meet each other and shake hands, except that Allah forgives them before they part (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Qatadah:that he asked Anas bin Malik: "Did the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) use to shake each other's hand?" He said, "Yes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas'ud:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "taking hold of the hand is from the completeness of the greeting (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Umamah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "From the complete of visiting the ill is that one of you place his hand on his forehead" - or he said - "on his hand, and ask him how he is. And shaking hands completes your greetings among each other (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Hani:"I went to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) during the Year of the Conquest, and I found him performing Ghusl, while Fatimah was screening him with a garment. She said: "So I gave Salam and he said: 'Who is this?' I said: 'I am Umm Hani.' He said: 'Welcome Umm Hani (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ikrimah bin Abi Jahl:"The day that I came to him, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Welcome to the riding emigrant.'" There are narrations on this topic from Buraidah, Ibn 'Abbas, and Abu Juhaifah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:The Jews used to sneeze in the presence of the Prophet (ﷺ) hoping that he would say: 'Yarhamukumullah (May Allah have mercy upon you).' So he said: 'Yahdikumullahu Wa Yuslihu Balakum (May Allah guide you and rectify your affairs) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Umar bin Ishaq bin Abi Talhah:from his mother, from her father, who said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Reply three times to the sneezing person. If he (sneezes) more, then if you wish reply and if you do not then do not (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that when the Prophet (ﷺ) would sneeze, he would cover his face with his hand or with his garment, and muffle the sound with it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Yaqzan:from 'Adi - and he is Ibn Thabit - from his father, from his grandfather - [from the Prophet (ﷺ)]: "Sneezing, dozing and yawning during Salat, and menstruation, regurgitation and nosebleeds are from Ash-Shaitan (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Let one of you not have his brother stand from his seat then sit in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Let one of you not have his brother stand from his seat then sit in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Wahb bin Hudaifah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A man has more right to his seat. If he leaves for some need of his, then he returns, then he has more right to his seat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "It is not lawful for a man to separate two people except with their permission (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Miljaz:that a man sat in the middle of a circle so Hudhaifah said: "Cursed upon the tongue of Muhammad - or - Cursed, by Allah upon the tongue of Muhammad (ﷺ), is he who sits in the middle of a the circle (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:"There was no person more beloved to them than the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)." [He said:] "And they would not stand when they saw him because they knew that he disliked that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Miljaz:that Mu'awiyah came out and 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair and Ibn Safwan stood for him when they saw him, so he said: "Sit, I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: 'Whoever wishes that he be received by men standing then, let him take his seat in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Five are from the Fitrah: Cutting the pubic hair, circumcision, paring the mustache, plucking the under arm hair and trimming the fingernails (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Ten are from the Fitrah: Paring the mustache, leaving the beard to grow, Siwak, cleaning the nose with water, paring the fingernails, washing the knuckles, plucking the underarm hair, shaving the pubic hairs, and Intiqas with water (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:from the Prophet (ﷺ), that he (ﷺ) fixed the time as every forty nights for them to trimming the fingernails, taking from the mustache, and shaving the pubic hairs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"[The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)] fixed the time for us paring the mustache, trimming the fingernails, shaving the pubic hairs and plucking the underarm hairs - that we not leave it for more than forty days (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) would pare, or take from his mustache, and Ibrahim Khalilur-Rahman would do it (as well) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever does not take from his mustache, then he is not from us (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Shu'aib:from his father, from his grandfather that he Prophet (ﷺ) would take from his beard; from its breadth and its length (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Trim the mustache and leave the beard to grow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered trimming the mustache and leaving the beard to grow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abbad bin Tamim:from his paternal uncle, that he saw the Prophet (ﷺ) reclining in the Masjid, and placing one of his feet atop another (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited Ishtimal As-Samma, Al-Ihtiba in one garment, and that a man raise one of his feet atop the other while he is reclining on his back (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited Ishtimal As-Samma, Al-Ihtiba in one garment, and that a man raise one of his feet atop the other while he is reclining on his back (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw a man laying on his stomach so he said: "Indeed such laying is not loved by Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samurah:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reclining upon as pillow, on his left side (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samurah:"I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) reclining upon a pillow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A man is not lead in his dominion, and his seat of honor in his house is not sat in without his permission (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Iyas bin Salamah:from his father who said: "I guided Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) and Al-Hasan and Al-Husain, on his gray mule until I brought him to the apartment of the Prophet (ﷺ), this one was in front of him, and this one behind him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:"I asked the Messenger Of Allah (ﷺ) about the unintentional glance, so he ordered me that I divert my sight (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Buraidah:from his father (from the Prophet (ﷺ)) who said: "O 'Ali! Do not follow a look with a look, the first is for you, but the next is not for you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Usamah bin Zaid, and Sa'eed bin Zaid bin 'Amr bin Nufail:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "I have not left among the people after me, a Fitnah more harmful upon men than women (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) cursed the women who practice tattooing and those who seek to be tattooed, the women who remove hair from their faces seeking beautification by changing the creation of Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Allah's curse is upon the woman who lengthens hair and the women who seeks to have her hair lengthened, and the woman who tattoos and the woman who seeks to have her herself tattooed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed the women who imitate men and the men who imitate women (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) cursed those men who behave effeminately and those women whose behavior is masculine (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Every eye commits adultery, and when the woman uses perfume and she passes by a gathering, then she is like this and that.'" Meaning an adulteress (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Thumamah bin 'Abdullah:"Anas would not refuse perfume, and Anas said: 'Indeed the Prophet (ﷺ) would not refuse perfume (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "There are three that are not refused: Cushions, oils [Duhn (fragrance)], and milk (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Uthman An-Nahdi:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'When one of you is given some fragrance then do not refuse it, for indeed it comes from Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "A woman is not to touch a woman such that she can describe her to her husband as if he is looking at her (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zur'ah bin Muslim bin Jardah Al-Aslami:about his grandfather Jarhad, he said: "The Prophet (ﷺ) passed by Jarhad in the Masjid and his thigh was exposed, so he said: 'Indeed the thigh is 'Awrah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Jardah Al-Aslami:from his father, from the Prophet (ﷺ) who said: "The thigh is 'Awrah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The thigh is 'Awrah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Az-Zinad:"Ibn Jarhad informed me from his father, that the Prophet (ﷺ) passed by him while his thigh was exposed, so the Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'Cover your thigh, for indeed it is 'Awrah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu 'Udhrah [and he lived during the time of the Prophet (ﷺ)]:from 'Aishah, that the Prophet (ﷺ) prohibitied the men and women from the Hammamat (plural of Hammam), then he permitted it for the men in Izar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"I heard Abu Talhah saying: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: "The angels do not enter a house in which there is a dog or an object of images (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:"A man passed by while wearing two red garments. He gave Salam to the Prophet (ﷺ) but he did not return the Salam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited the gold ring, Al-Qassi, Al-Mitharah, and Al-Ji'ah (beer) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Samurah bin Jundab:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Wear white, for indeed it is very pure and cleaner, and shroud your dead in it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir Bin Samurah:"I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) on a clear night, so I looked at the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and at the moon, and he was wearing a red Hullah, and he looked better than the moon to me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Rimthah:"I saw the Messenger of Allah wearing two green Burud (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) went out during the morning wearing a Mirt made of black hair (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited saffron for men (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ya'la bin Murrah:"The Prophet (ﷺ) saw a man wearing Khuluq and said: 'Go and wash it, then wash it, then do not use it again (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated The freed slave of Asma:from Ibn 'Umar who said: "I heard 'Umar mentioning that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'Whoever wears silk in the world he shall not wear it in the Hereafter (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Shu'aib:from his father, from his grandfather who said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Indeed Allah loves to see the results of his favors upon His Slaves (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Buraidah:from his father: "An-Najashi gave the Prophet (ﷺ) two black plain Khuff. So he wore them, then he performed Wudu and wiped over them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Shu'aib:from his father, from his grandfather: "The Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited plucking gray hair. And he said: "It is the Muslim's light (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The one whose counsel is sought is entrusted (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The one whose council is sought is entrusted (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Salim and Hamzah, the sons of 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:from their father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "An omen is in three: A woman, a dwelling, and a (riding) beast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whenever there are three of you, then let two not converse in exclusion of their companion (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Isma'il bin Abi Khalid:that Abu Juhaifah said: "I saw the Prophet (ﷺ), and Al-Hasan bin 'Ali resembles him the most (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:"I did not hear the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning both of his parents (that is including both in the saying "May my father and mother be ransomed for you") for anyone other than Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not mention both of his parents for anyone except Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas. On the Day of Uhud he said: 'Shoot, may my father and mother be ransomed for you.' And he said to him: 'Shoot! O young man (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) mentioned both of his parents to me on the Day of Uhud (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him: "O my little son (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Shu'aib:from his father, from his grandfather that the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered naming the child on the seventh day, removing the harm from him, and Al-'Aqq (removing the hair and slaughtering the animal for 'Aqiqah) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The most loved names to Allah are 'Abdullah and 'Abdur-Rahman (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The most loved names to Allah are 'Abdullah and 'Abdur-Rahman (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Umar [bin Al-Khattab]:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I forbid naming with Rafi, Barakah and Yasar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Samurah bin Jundab:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not name your boy Rabah, nor Aflah, nor Yasar, nor Najih, so that it may be said: 'Is he there?' and it may be said: 'No (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-A'raj:that Abu Hurairah conveyed to him that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The most despicable (Akhna) name to Allah on the Day of Judgement is that of a man named King of Kings. (Malikil-Amlak) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) changed the name of 'Asiyah, he said: "You are Jamilah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) would change abhorrent names (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) prohibited that one use his name and his Kunyah; naming themselves Muhammad Abul-Qasim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): "When you name yourself after me, then do not use my Kunyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:that he said: "O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)! If I have a son after you do you think I could name him your Kunyah?" He said: "Yes." So he said: "So that was permitted for me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed some poetry is wisdom (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed some poetry is wisdom (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Miqdam bin Shuraih:from his father, that 'Aishah was asked: "Did the Prophet (ﷺ) used to say any poetry?" She said: "He would say parables with the poetry of Ibn Rawahah, saying: 'News shall come to you from where you did not expect it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The best statement spoken by the Arab is the saying of Labid: 'Everything aside from Allah perishes (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samurah:"I sat with the Prophet (ﷺ) more than one-hundred times. His Companions used to recite poetry and talk about things that occurred during Jahiliyyah, and he would remain silent, and sometimes he would smile along with them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas:from his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "It is better that one of you fill his insides with puss than to fill it with poetry (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "It is better that one of you fill his insides with puss than to fill it with poetry (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed Allah detests the excessive among men, who slaps his tongue around like the cow slaps his tongue (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited that a man sleep on a terrace without something to obstruct him (so that he will not roll off and fall) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to take care of us by preaching during the days fearing that we may get bored (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Salih:"I asked 'Aishah and Umm Salamah about which deed did the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) like to do most. They said: 'Whatever he could do regularly, even if it was little (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Cover the vessels, tie the water-skins, close the doors, extinguish the torches, for indeed the mischief-makers (vermin) may drag away the wick, causing a fire for the inhabitants of the house (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) with similar in meaning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The parable of my Ummah is that of a rain; it is not known if its beginning is better or its end (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "People are but like a hundred camels, a man can not find a mount (suitable to ride upon) among them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Parable of myself and that of my Ummah is that of a man who kindled a fire, and the flies and moths began flying into it - and I am trying to prevent you from diving into it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not turn your houses into graves. Indeed Ash-Shaitan does not enter the house in which Surat Al-Baqarah is recited (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): "For everything there is a hump (pinnacle) and the hump (pinnacle) of the Qur'an is Surat Al-Baqarah, in it there is an Ayah which is the master of the Ayat in the Qur'an; [it is] Ayat Al-Kursi (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Mas'ud Al-Ansari:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever recites the last two Ayat of Surat Al-Baqarah during the night, they shall suffice him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:"Allah has not created in the heavens nor in the earth what is more magnificent than Ayat Al-Kursi." Sufyan said: "Because Ayat Al-Kursi is the Speech of Allah, and Allah's Speech is greater than Allah's creation of the heavens and the earth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Ad-Darda:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever recites three Ayat from the beginning of Al-Kahf he is protected from the turmoil of the Dajjal (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed for everything there is a heart, and the Qur'an's heart is Ya Sin. Whoever recites Ya Sin, then for its recitation, Allah writes for him that he recited the Qur'an ten times (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever recites Ha Mim Ad-Dukhan during the night, in the morning seventy thousand angels seek forgiveness for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever recites Ha Mum Ad-Dukhan during Friday night, he shall be forgiven (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Indeed there is a Surah in the Qur'an of thirty Ayat, which intercedes for a man until he is forgiven. It is [Surah] Tabarak Alladhi Biyadihil-Mulk (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Idha Zulzilat is equal to half of the Qur'an, Qul Huwa Allahu Ahad is equal to a third of the Qur'an, and Yul Ya Ayyuhal-Kafirun is equal to a fourth of the Qur'an (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Ayyub:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Would one of you like to recite a third of the Qur'an during a night? Whoever recited: Allaahu Al-Wahid As-Samad then he has recited a third of the Qur'an (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"I went out with the Messenger of Allah and heard a man reciting Qul Huwa Allahu Ahad [Allahus-Samad] so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'It is obligatory.' I said: 'What is obligatory?' He said: 'Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Qul Huwa Allahu Ahad is equal to a third of the Qur'an (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir Al-Juhani:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Some Ayat have been revealed to me the likes of which have not been seen: Qul A'udhu Birabbin-Nas until the end of the Surah and Qul A'udhu Birabbil-Falaq until the end of the Surah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ordered me to recite Al-Mu'awwidhatain at the end of every Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Uthman [bin 'Affan]:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best of you - or the most virtuous of you - is he who learns the Qur'an and teaches it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best of you is he who learns the Qur'an and teaches it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jubair bin Nufair:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "You shall not return to Allah with what is more virtuous than what came from Him." Meaning the Qur'an (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed, the one who does not have the Qur'an inside him (his heart), is like the ruined house (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "It shall be said - meaning to the one who memorized the Qur'an - 'Recite, and rise up, recite (melodiously) as you would recite in the world. For indeed your rank shall be at the last Ayah you recited (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Suhaib:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "He does not believe in the Qur'an who makes lawful what it prohibits (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The one who recites the Qur'an aloud is like the one who gives charity publicly, and the one who recites the Qur'an quietly is like the one who gives charity secretly (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:"The Prophet (ﷺ) would not sleep until he recited Surat Bani Isra'il and Az-Zumar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Irbad bin Sariyah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) would recite the Musabbihat (Chapters 17, 57, 59, 61, 62, 64 & 87) before sleep and say "Indeed there is an Ayah in them that is better than one thousand Ayat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:"During the Mawqif (hajj season), the Prophet (ﷺ) would present himself and say: 'Which man will bring me to his people? For indeed the Quraish have prevented me from conveying the Speech of my Lord (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Abi Mulaikah:that Umm Salamah said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would separate recitation reciting: 'Al-Hamdulillahi Rabbil-'Alamin' then he would stop. 'Ar-Rahmanir-Rahim' then he would stop. And he would recite it: 'Maliki Yawmid-Din (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Prophet (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, and 'Umar - and I think he said - and 'Uthman would recite: "Maaliki Yawmid-Din (1:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"The Prophet (ﷺ) would recite: 'Anin-nafsu Bin-Nafsi Wal-'Ainu Bil-'Aini'" (From 5:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Mu'adh bin Jabal:"The Prophet (ﷺ) would recite: 'Hal Tastati'u Rabbak (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah:"The Prophet (ﷺ) would recite: 'Innahu 'Amila Ghaira Salih (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Salamah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited this Ayah: 'Innahu 'Amalun Ghairu Salih'" (11:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:from 'Ubayy bin Ka'b, that the Prophet (ﷺ) would recite: "Qad Balaghta Min Ladunni 'Udhra" (18:76) with heaviness (Muthaqqalah - meaning with Tashdid on the Nun in "Ladunni) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:from Ubay bin Ka'b that the Prophet (ﷺ) recited: "Fi 'Ainin Hami'ah" (18:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that he recited the following to the Prophet (ﷺ): "Who created you in the weakness (Min Da'f)" So he said: "Min Du'f" (Another chain) with similar in meaning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would recite: "Then is there anyone who would remember? (54:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) would recite: "Furuhun Wa Raihanun Wa Jannatu Na'im (56:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited to me: "Indeed Allah is the Provider, The Possessor of power, the Firm." (51:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Imran bin Husain:"The Prophet (ﷺ) recited: You shall see mankind as if in a drunken state, yet they will not be in a drunken state. (22:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Recite the Qur'an in forty (days) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"A man said 'O Messenger of Allah! Which deed is most virtuous to Allah?' He said: 'Al-Hallul-Murtahil'' He said: 'What is Al-Hallul-Murtahil?' He said: 'The one who recites from the beginning of the Qur'an to the end of it, every time he sets out (on a trip) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "He who recites the Qur'an in less than three (days), he does not understand it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever says (something) about the Qur'an without knowledge, then let him take his seat in the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Adiyy bin Hatim:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The Jews are those who Allah is wrath with, and the Christians have strayed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that 'Umar bin Al-Khattab said: "O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)! I wish that we could perform Salat behind the Maqam: So the following was revealed: And take you the Maqam of Ibrahim as a place of Salat. (2:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that 'Umar bin Al-Khattab [may Allah be pleased with him] said: "I said: 'O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)! I wish that you could perform Salat behind the Maqam of Ibrahim.' So the following was revealed: And take you the Maqam of Ibrahim as a place of Salat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"They were bowing during Salat Al-Fajr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"When the Prophet (ﷺ) began facing the Ka'bah they said: 'O Messenger of Allah! How about our brothers who died while they were praying toward Bait Al-Maqdis?' So Allah Most High revealed: Allah would not allow your faith to be wasted. (2:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Adi bin Hatim:"When 'Until the white (light) thread of dawn appears distinct to you from the black thread (of night)' was revealed, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to me: 'That only refers to the whiteness of the day from the blackness of the night (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The most hated man to Allah is the most quarrelsome (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"The Jews would say: "Whoever goes into his wife's vagina from behind her, then his children will be cross-eyed.' So Allah revealed: Your wives are a tilth for your, so go to your tilth when or how you will (2:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Samurah bin Jundab:"The Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'The middle Salat is Salat Al-'Asr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated:'Ubaidah As-Salmani that 'Ali narrated to him that on the Day of Al-Ahzab the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "O Allah! Fill their graves and their homes with fire as they have kept us busy from Salat Al-Wusta (the middle prayer) until the sun set (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Salat Al-Wusta is Salat Al-'Asr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam:"During the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), we would talk during Salat, so 'And stand before Allah with obedience (2:238) was revealed, ordering us to be silent." (Another chain) with similar wordings, but he added: "And we were forbidden from talking (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amir bin Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas:from his father who said: "When this Ayah was revealed: 'Come, let us call our sons and your sons, our women and your women... (3:61)' the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) called 'Ali, Fatimah, Hasan and Husain and said: 'O Allah! This is my family (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:"On the Day of Awtas, we captured some women who had husbands among the idolaters. So some of the men disliked that, so Allah, Most High, revealed: And women already married, except those whom your right hands possess... (4:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:"We captured some women on the Day of Awtas and they had husbands among their people. That was mentioned to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) so Allah revealed: '...And women already married, except those whom your right hands possess... (4:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ubaidullah bin Abi Bakr [bin Anas]:from Anas bin Malik, that the Prophet (ﷺ) [said] about the major sins: "Shirk with Allah, disobeying the parents, taking the life, and false statement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The major sins are associating others with Allah, disobeying the parents" or he said, "the false oath". Shu'bah (a narrator in the chain) was in doubt (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Thuwair - Ibn Abi Fakhitah:from his father that 'Ali bin Abi Talib said: "There is no Ayah in the Qur'an more beloved to me than this Ayah: Verily Allah forgives not associating others with Him, but He forgives what is less than that for whomever He wills (4:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:"The last Ayah revealed" or, "The last thing revealed was: They ask you about a legal verdict. Say: 'Allah directs (thus) regarding Al-Kalalah (4:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:"When (the following) was revealed: Those who believe and do righteous good deeds, there is no sin on them for what they ate, if they have Taqwa and perform good (5:93). The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'You are among them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that a man said: "O Messenger of Allah! Who is my father?" He said: "Your father is so-and-so." He said: "So (the following) was revealed: O you who believe! Ask not about things which, if made plain to you, may cause you trouble (5:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:"The last Surah revealed was Surat Al-Ma'idah and Al-Fath (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:"Abu Jahl said to the Prophet (ﷺ): 'We do not deny you, but we deny what you came with.' So Allah Most High revealed: It is not you that they deny but is Allah's Ayat which the wrong-doers reject (6:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas:from the Prophet (ﷺ), regarding this Ayah "Say: He has the power to send torment on you from above or from under your feet...' the Prophet (ﷺ) said "Indeed they shall be, even though they have not occurred as of yet (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:"Whoever wishes to look at the Sahifah which Muhammad (ﷺ) placed his seal upon, then let him look at these Ayat, 'Say: Come, I will recite what your Lord has prohibited you from... up to His saying "That you may have Taqwa (6:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Atiyyah:from Abu Sa'eed, from the Prophet (ﷺ), regarding the saying of Allah, Most High: Or some of the Signs of your Lord come (6:158). He (ﷺ) said: "The sun's rising from its setting place (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "There are three, for which when they appear, a soul will not benefit by its faith, if it did not believe before the Signs: Ad-Dajjal, the Beast, and the rising of the sun from its setting place" - or "from the west (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When Allah created Adam" (and he mentioned) the Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:"I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the day of Al-Hajj Al-Akbar, and he said: "The day of An-Nahr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:"The day of Al-Hajj Al-Akbar is the day of An-Nahr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that Abu Bakr narrated to him, he said: "While were in the cave, I said to the Prophet (ﷺ): 'If one of them were to look down at his feet, then he would see us under his feet.' So he said: 'O Abu Bakr! What do you think about two, the third of whom is Allah? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) commented on: "Some of them We make more excellent than others to eat (13:4)." He said: "The Daqal, the Persian (referring to different kind of dates), the sweet, the bitter (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Masruq:"'Aishah recited this Ayah: The Day when the earth will be changed to another earth (14:48). She said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Where will the people be?' He said: 'Upon the Sirat (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "There are seven gates of Jahannam: Among them a gate for whoever carries a sword against my Ummah." Or he said: "Against the Ummah of Muhammad (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Al-Hamdulillah is Umm Al-Qur'an and Umm Al-Kitab and the seven oft-repeated (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ubayy bin Ka'b:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Allah has not revealed the likes of Umm Al-Kitab in the Tawrah, nor the Injil. It is the seven oft-repeated, and (Allah said) 'It is divided between Myself and My slave, and My slave shall have what he asks for (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that regarding Allah's saying: We shall certainly call all of them to account. For all that they used to do (15:92 & 93). The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "About saying La Ilaha Illallah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Beware of the believer's intuition, for indeed he sees with Allah's Light." Then he recited: Surely in this are signs for those who see (15:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Buraidah:from his father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When we reached Bait Al-Maqdis, Jibra'il pointed with his finger causing a crack in the rock, and he tied Al-Buraq to it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "When the Quraish belied me, I stood in the Hijr, and Allah displayed Bait Al-Maqdis to me, so I informed them of its features as I was looking at it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:regarding Allah, Most High, saying: "And recite the Qur'an in the early dawn. Verily the recitation of the Qur'an in the early dawn is ever witnessed (17:78)." The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "It is witnessed by the angels of the night and the angels of the day (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:regarding Allah's saying: "It may be that your Lord will raise you to a praised station (17:79)" that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked about it and he said: "It is the intercession (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) was in Makkah, then Hijrah was ordered, so the following was revealed to him: Say: 'My Lord! Let my entry be good, and likewise my exit be good. And grant me from You a helping authority (17:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Bahz bin Hakim:from his father, from his grandfather [who said:] "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Indeed you shall be gathered walking, riding, and being dragged upon your faces (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that Ubayy bin Ka'b narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "The boy that Al-Khidr killed was destined to be a disbeliever the day he was created (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "He was called Al-Khadir because he sat on a barren Farwah and it turned green beneath him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Ad-Darda:that regarding Allah's saying: And there was under it a treasure belonging to them (18:82) - the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Gold and silver (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Shaiban:from Qatadah, that regarding Allah's saying: And we raised him to a high station (19:57). He said: "Anas bin Malik narrated that Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) said: "When I was brought up, I saw Idris in the Fourth Heaven (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Shu'bah:from As-Suffi from Murrah: "'Abdullah said: 'There is not one of you but will pass over it (19:71) - They pass over it, then they avert it based upon their deeds (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Woe is the valley of Jahannam, the disbeliever shall drop into it for forty autumns before he reaches its bottom (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "It is only called Al-Bait Al-'Atiq because it has not been conquered by a tyrant (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:"When my innocence was revealed, the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) stood on the Minbar and mentioned that. He recited the Qur'an, and when he descended, he ordered that two men, and the woman, be beaten as their Hadd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Qasamah bin Zuhair:"Al-Ash'ari said: 'When (the following) was revealed: 'And warn your tribe of near kindred (26:214)' the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) placed his fingers in his ears, raised his voice and said: 'O Banu 'Abd Manaf! Hearken (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Hani:that regarding Allah's saying: '...And you practice evil in your meetings... (29:29) that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "They would throw pebbles at people of the land and make a mockery of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik said about this Ayah:Their sides forsake their beds (32:16) - "It was revealed about waiting for [this] Salat which you call Al-'Atamah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Musa bin Talhah:"I entered upon Mu'awiyah and he said:' Shall I not give you some good news?' I said: 'Of course!' He said: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: 'Talhah is among those who fulfilled their vow (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah [may Allah be pleased with her]:"If the Prophet (ﷺ) was to have hidden anything from the Revelation, then he would have hidden this Ayah: 'When you said to him on whom Allah has bestowed grace and you have done a favor (33:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"We called Zaid bin Harithah nothing but 'Zaid bin Muhammad' until the Qur'an was revealed (saying): 'Call them by their fathers, that is more just according to Allah (33:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Dawud bin Abi Hind:from Ash-Sha'bi regarding the saying of Allah [the Mighty and Sublime]: 'Muhammad is not the father of any one of your men (33:40)' he said: "No male children of his would live among them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not die until the women had been made lawful for him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ubayy bin Ka'b:"I asked the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) about the saying of Allah, Most High: 'And We sent him to a hundred thousand, or even more (37:147). He said: 'Twenty thousand (more) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Samurah narrated regarding the saying of Allah, Most High:And his progeny, them We made survivors (37:77).' The Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Ham, Sam and Yafith" - with (the letter) Tha (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Samurah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Sam was the father of Arabs, Ham the father of the Ethiopians, and Yafith the father of the Romans (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Asma bint Yazid:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) reciting: 'Say: "O My slaves who have transgressed against themselves! Despair not of the mercy of Allah, verily, Allah forgives all sins and I do not mind (referring to 39:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:"So the Prophet (ﷺ) laughed in amazement and approval (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Masruq:that 'Aishah said: "O Messenger of Allah! - On the Day of Resurrection the whole earth will be grasped by His Hand and the heavens will be rolled up in His Right Hand (39:67). Where will the believers be?" He said: "Upon the Sirat O 'Aishah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr [may Allah be pleased with him]:"A Bedouin said: 'O Messenger of Allah! What is As-Sur?' He said: 'A horn which is blown into (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated An-Nu'man bin Bashir:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Supplication is the worship." Then he recited: 'And your Lord said: 'Call upon Me, I will answer you. Verily, those who scorn my My worship, they will surely enter Hell in humiliation (40:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) recited: Verily those who say: "Our Lord is Allah, and then they stand firm (41:30)." - He said: "People have said it, then most of them disbelieved, so whoever dies upon it, then he is among those who stood firm (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Az-Zuhri:from Abu Salamah, from Abu Hurairah [may Allah be pleased with him] (regarding): 'And seek forgiveness for your sins, and also for the believing men and women (47:19).' That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed I ask Allah for forgiveness seventy times a day (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated At-Tufail bin Ubayy bin Ka'b:from his father, from the Prophet (ﷺ) (regarding this Ayah): 'And made them stick to the word of Taqwa (48:26).' He (ﷺ) said (the word is): "La Ilaha Illallah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Jubairah bin Ad-Dahhak:"A man among us would be known by two or three names. He would be called by one that perhaps he disliked, so this Ayah was revealed: Nor insult with nicknames (49:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Hasan:from Samurah that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Al-Hasab is wealth and Al-Karam is Taqwa (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that Allah's Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Jahannam will continue saying: 'Are there any more' until the Might Lord puts His Foot over it. It will say: 'Enough! Enough! By Your Might.' And one side of it will close in on the other (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "And at the setting of the stars (52:49) (about) the two Rak'ah before Fajr. And after the prostrations (50:40) 'The two Rak'at after Al-Maghrib (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ash-Shaibani:"I asked Zirr bin Hubaish about the saying of Allah the Might and Sublime: And was a distance of two bow lengths or less (53:9). So he said: 'Ibn Mas'ud informed me that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw Jibra'il, and he had six-hundred wings (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ikrimah:that Ibn 'Abbas said: "Muhammad saw his Lord." I said: "Did Allah not say: No vision can grasp Him, but He grasps all vision (6:103). He said: "Woe unto you! That is when He manifests His Light. But Muhammad saw his Lord two times (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ikrimah:that Ibn 'Abbas said (regarding the Ayah): The heart lied not in what he (ﷺ) saw (53:11). He said: "He saw Him with his heart (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Shaqiq:"I said to Abu Dharr: 'If I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) then I would asked him." He said: 'What is it that you would have asked him about?' I said: 'I would have asked him if Muhammad saw his Lord?' He said: 'I did ask him that, and he (ﷺ) said: I saw light (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdur-Rahman bin Zaid:from 'Abdullah (regarding the Ayah): The heart lied not in what he saw (53:11). He said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saw Jibra'il in a Hullah (dress normally made up of two pieces) of Rafraf filling what is between the heavens and the earth (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ata:from Ibn 'Abbas (regarding this Ayah): Those who avoid great sins and Al-Fawahish except Al-Lamam (minor sins) (53:32). He said: "The Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'Your forgiveness, O Allah is so ample, and which of Your worshipers has not committed Al-Lamam (minor sins) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas'ud:"The moon was cleft asunder during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), so the Prophet (ﷺ) said to us: 'Bear witness (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"The moon was split during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). So the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Bear witness (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"The idolaters of the Quraish came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) arguing about Qadar, so the following was revealed: The day they will be dragged on their faces into the Fire. Taste you the touch of Hell! Verily, We have created all things with Qadar (54:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Prophet said:“Indeed in Paradise there is a tree under whose shade a rider can travel for one hundred years without stopping. Recite if you wish: And in shave extended. And water flowing constantly.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa’eed Al-Khudri may Allah be pleased with him, narrated :from the Prophet – regarding Allah’s saying ‘And on couches raised high – he said: “Their height is as what is between the heavens and the earth, and the distance between the two of them is five hundred years.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Abdur-Rahman narrated from Ali that :the Messenger of Allah said: And you make your provision your demise! – he said: “Your gratitude is expressed by saying: ‘We received rain because of this and that celestial position, and because of this and that star.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas [may Allah be pleased with him] said:“The Messenger of Allah recited: Verily, We have created them a special creation. He said: “Among that special creation is the women who were decrepit, bleary eyed and elderly in the world.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Ishaq narrated from Ikrimah, from Ibn Abbas who said:“Abu Bakr [may Allah be pleased with him] said: ‘O Messenger of Allah! You have become gray.’ He said: ‘I have gone gray from (Surat) Hud, Al-Waqi`ah, Al-Mursalat and `Amma Yatasa'alun and Idhash-Shamsu Kuwwirat.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa’eed narrated :from the Prophet regarding Allah’s saying: Like Al-Muhl – he said: “Like boiling oil, such that when it is brought close to one’s face the skin of his face will fall off into it.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa’eed narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: “As-Sa’ud is a mountain of fire, a disbeliever will be rised upon it for seventy autumns, and them similarly he will fall down it, forever.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :the Prophet said: “You will be gathered barefoot, naked and uncircumcised.” “A woman said: “Will we see” or “look at each other’s nakedness?” He said: “O so-and-so! Every man among them on that Day will have enough to make him careless of others.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: “Whoever wishes to look at the Day of Resurrection, as if he is seeing it with this eye, then let him recite: ‘When the sun Kuwwirat’ and ‘When the heaven is cleft sunder (Infatarat) and ‘When the heaven is split asunder.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hammad bin Zaid narrated from Ayub, from Nafi, from Ibn Umar:The Day when mankind will stand before the Lord of all tat exists He said: “They will be standing in sweat up to the middle of their ear.” – Hammas said: To us it is Marfu (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated from the Prophet:‘They Day when mankind will stand before the Lord of all that exists.’ He said: “One of them will be standing in sweat up to the middle of his ears.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that:The Prophet said: “Whoever is reckoned with, he will be punished.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Imran bin Husain narrated that:The Prophet was asked about Ash-Shafi, so he said: “It is As-Salat, some of it is Shaf (even) and some of it is Witr (odd).” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ismail bin Umayyah said:“I heard a Bedouin man saying: ‘I heard Abu Hurairah saying: “Whoever recited Surat ‘By At-Tim and Az-Zamzam’ Then he recited: ‘Is not Allah the best of judges?’ then let him say: ‘Of course, and I am a witness to that.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ikrimah narrated from Ibn Abbas [may Allah be pleased with them] regarding:We will call on the guards of Hell. He said: “Abu Jahl said: ‘If I see Muhammad praying, then I shall stomp upon his neck.’ So the Prophet said: ‘If he does, he will be visibly seized by the angels.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that:A man said to the Prophet: “O best of creatures!” So he said: “That is Ibrahim.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Zirr bin Jubaish reported from Ali [may Allah be pleased with him] that he said:“We were still in doubt concerning the torment of the grave, until ‘the mutual rivalry diverts you” was revealed’.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin `Umar narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: “Al-Kauthar is a river in Paradise, whose banks are of gold, and it flows over pearls and corundum. Its dirt is purer than musk, and its water is sweeter than honey and whiter than milk.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated:“The Prophet looked at the moon and he said: ‘O Aishah! Do you seek refuge with Allah from the evil of this? For indeed this is Al-Ghasiqu Idha Waqab (The darkened one as it darkens).’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:The Prophet said: “There is nothing more honorable with Allah [Most High] than supplication.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that :the Prophet said: “The supplication is the essence of worship.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
An-Nu`man bin Bashir narrated that:The Prophet said: “The supplication, is worship.” Then he recited: And Your Lord said: “Call upon me, I will respond to you. Verily, those who scorn My worship, they will surely enter Hell humiliated (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah (ra) narrated that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Indeed, he who does not ask Allah, he gets angry with him.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Busr (ra) narrated that:A man said: “O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), indeed, the legislated acts of Islam have become too much for me, so inform me of a thing that I should stick to.” He (ﷺ) said: “Let not your tongue cease to be moist with the remembrance of Allah.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that :the Messenger of Allah said: “There is none who utters a supplication, except that Allah gives him what he asked, or prevents evil from him that is equal to it – as long as he does not supplicate for something evil, or the cutting of ties of the womb.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah [may Allah be pleased with him] narrated that:The Messenger of Allah said: “Whoever wishes that Allah would respond to him during hardship and grief, then let him supplicate plentifully when at ease.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir bin `Abdullah (ra) narrated that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “The best remembrance is: ‘there is none worthy of worship except Allah (Lā ilāha illallāh)’ and the best supplication is: ‘All praise is due to Allah (Al-ḥamdulillāh).’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
A'ishah (ra) narrated that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to remember Allah in all of his affairs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn `Abbas narrated from Ubayy bin Ka`b that :whenever the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would mention someone and supplicate for him, he would begin with himself (ﷺ) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Al-Khattab [may Allah be pleased with him] narrated:“Whenever the Messenger of Allah would raise his hands in supplication, he would not lower them until he had wiped his face with them.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Prophet said: “One of you will be responded to, so long as he is not hasty, saying: ‘I supplicated, and I was not responded to.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Al-Bara' bin `Azib (ra) narrated that:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to lay his head upon his right hand when going to sleep, then say: “My Lord, safeguard me from Your punishment the Day You resurrect Your slaves (Rabbi qinī `adhābaka yawma tab`athu `ibādak).” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir said:“The Prophet would not sleep until he reached Tanzil as-Sajdah and Tabarak.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ar-Irbad bin Sariyah (ra) narrated that:The Prophet (ﷺ) would not sleep until he had recited Al-Musabbihat, and he would say: “In them is an Ayah that is better than a thousand Ayah.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali [may Allah be pleased with him] said:“Fatimah went to the Prophet complaining of her hands blistering, so he ordered her to say At-Tasbīḥ, At-Takbīr, and At-Taḥmīd.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr [may Allah be pleased with him] said:“I saw the Messenger of Allah counting At-Tasbīḥ.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ka’b bin Ujrah narrated that:The Prophet said: “There are Mu’aqqibat, he who says them shall not be miserable. Glorify Allah at the end of every prayer thirty-three times, and praise him thirty-three times, and extol His greatness thirty-four times.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Maslamah bin `Amr said:“`Umair bin Hani used to perform a thousand prostrations every day and recite a hundred thousand Tasbīḥs every day.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ar-Rabi` bin Al-Bara’ bin `Azib reported from, his father:That whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) would return from a trip, he would say: “(We are) Returning, repenting, worshipping, and to our Lord directing the praise (Ā’ibūna tā’būna `ābidūna lirabbinā ḥāmidūn).” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that:When the Prophet would return from a trip and see the walls of Al-Madinah, he would speed up his riding camel, and if he was upon a beast, he would agitate it, out of his love for Al-Madinah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Sa`eed [may Allah be pleased with him] narrated that:When the Prophet (ﷺ) used to eat or drink, he would say: “All praise is due to Allah who fed us and gave us drink, and made us Muslims (Al-ḥamdulillāh, alladhī aṭ`amanā, wa saqānā, wa ja`alanā muslimīn).” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that:The Prophet (ﷺ) said: “Whoever says: ‘Glory is to Allah, the Magnificent, and with His Praise (Subḥān Allāhil-Aẓīm, wa biḥamdih)’ a date-palm tree is planted for him in Paradise.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Jabir narrated that :The Prophet (ﷺ) said: “Whoever says: ‘Glory is to Allah, the Magnificent, and with His Praise (Subḥān Allāhil-Aẓīm, wa biḥamdih)’ a date-palm tree is planted for him in Paradise.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that :the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Whoever says: ‘Glory is to Allah, and with His Praise (Subḥān Allāh, wa biḥamdih)’ a hundred times, his sins are forgiven, even if they were like the foam of the sea.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Az-Zuhri said:“A Tasbihah in Ramadan is better than a thousand Tasbihah in other that it.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Call upon Allah while being certain of being answered, and know that Allah does not respond to a supplication from the heart of one heedless and occupied by play.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah bin Amr narrated:“I saw the Prophet counting the Tasbih on his hand.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Hisham bin Hassan narrated from Al-Hasan :concerning the saying of Allah: O our Lord, give us good in this world, and good in the Hereafter. He said: “Knowledge and worship in this world, and Paradise in the Hereafter.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that :the Prophet (ﷺ) used to supplicate: “O Allah, indeed, I ask You for guidance, piety, chastity, and sufficiency (Allāhumma innī as’alukal-hudā wat-tuqā, wal-`afāfa wal-ghinā).” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying at his death: ‘O Allah, forgive me and have mercy on me, and join me with the Highest Company (Allāhummaghfirlī warḥamnī wa alḥiqnī bir-rafīqil a`lā).’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:“None of you should say: ‘O Allah forgive me if You wish. O Allah have mercy on me if You wish.’ Let him be firm in asking, for there is none that can compel Him to do things.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah narrated:“It was said: ‘O Messenger of Allah, which supplication is most likely to be listened to?’ He said: ‘(During) the last part of the night, and at the end of the obligatory prayers.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah [may Allah be pleased with him] narrated the the Prophet said:“Indeed Allah has ninety-nine Names, one hundred less one, whoever counts them shall enter Paradise.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Prophet said:“Indeed, Allah has ninety-nine Names, whoever counts them shall enter Paradise.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik [may Allah be pleased with him] narrated that the Messenger of Allah said:“When you pass by the gardens of Paradise, them feast.” They said: “And what are the gardens of Paradise?” He said: “The circles of remembrance.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Umar narrated that the Messenger of Allah said (ﷺ):“Allah has not been asked for anything more beloved to Him than being asked for Al-`Āfiyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated from Abu Bakr As-Siddiq,:that whenever the Prophet (ﷺ) wanted to do a matter, he would say: “O Allah, make it good for me and choose for me. (Allāhumma khir lī wakhtar lī)” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Be constant with: ‘O Possessor of Majesty and Honor (Yā Dhal-Jalāli wal-Ikrām).’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn `Umar narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Indeed Allah accepts the repentance of a slave as long as (his soul does not reach his throat).” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah is more delighted with the repentance of one of you, than one of you is, when finding his lost animal.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Allah created a hundred mercies, and He placed one mercy among his creation, they show mercy to one another by it, and there are ninety-nine mercies with Allah.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“If the believer knew what is with Allah of punishment, none would hope for Paradise, and if the disbeliever knew what is with Allah of mercy, none would despair of (attaining) Paradise.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Verily, Allah when He created the creation, He wrote with His Hand concerning Himself, that: ‘My mercy prevails over My wrath.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ali bin Abi Talib narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The stingy person is the one before whom I am mentioned, and he does not send Salat upon me.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrates, saying:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “The lifespan of my nation is between sixty to seventy, and the least of them are those who surpass that.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Aishah narrated, saying:The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Whoever supplicates against the one who wronged him has triumphed.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Salman Al-Farsi narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“Indeed, Allah, is Hayy, Generous, when a man raises his hands to Him, He feels too shy to return them to him empty and rejected.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that:A man was supplicating with his two fingers so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “Make it one, make it one.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Bakr narrated:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: “He who seeks forgiveness has not been persistent in sin, even if he does it seventy times in a day.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn `Umar narrated from `Umar:that he sought permission from the Prophet (ﷺ) concerning `Umrah, so he said: “O my little brother, include us in your supplication and do not forget us.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Az-Zubair bin `Awwam narrated:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: “There is not a morning that the slave of Allah reached except that a caller calls out: ‘Glorify the King, the Free of Deficiencies. (Sabbiḥul Malikal-Quddūs)’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abdullah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Ask Allah of His Bounty. For verily, Allah the Mighty and Sublime, loves to be asked, and the best of worship is awaiting relief.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Umamah [may Allah be pleased with him] said:`Amr bin `Abasah reported to me that he heard the Prophet (ﷺ) say: “The closest that the Lord is to a worshipper is during the last part of the night, so if you are able to be of those who remember Allah in that hour, then do so.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umarah bin Za`karah said:“I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying; ‘Indeed, Allah, the Mighty and Sublime, says: “Indeed My worshipper who is entirely My slave is the one who remembers Me when he is about to meet his enemy.” That is: “At the time of fighting.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Safwan bin Sulaim said:“No angel has risen from the earth until he said: ‘There is no might or power except with Allah (Lā ḥawla wa lā quwwata illā billāh).’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas narrated that when the Prophet (ﷺ) would go out for an expedition, he would say:“O Allah, You are my `Aḍud and You are my Helper, and by You do I fight (Allāhumma anta `aḍudī, wa anta naṣīrī, wa bika uqātil).” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ziyad bin `Ilaqah narrated from his uncle, that he said:“[The Prophet (ﷺ)] used to say: ‘O Allah, I seek refuge in You from evil character, evil actions, and evil desires (Allāhumma innī a`ūdhu bika min munkarātil-akhlāqi wal-a`māli wal-ahwā’).’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas bin Malik narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“The supplication is not rejected between the Adhan and the Iqamah.” They said: “So what should we say, O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)?” He said: “Ask Allah for Al-`Afiyah in the world and in the Hereafter.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Anas [bin Malik] narrated that the Prophet (ﷺ) said:“The supplication is not rejected between the Adhan and the Iqamah.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: ‘Be frequent in saying: “There is no might or power except by Allah, (Lā ḥawla wa lā quwwata illā billāh).” For verily, it is a treasure from the treasures of Paradise.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Every Prophet has a (special) supplication which is answered. Verily, I have reserved mine as intercession for my nation, and it shall reach, if Allah wills, those of them who die, not associating anything with Allah.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Wathilah bin Al-Asqa':that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed, Allah chose Kinanah from the children of Isma'il, and He chose Quraish from Kinanah, and He chose Hashim from Quraish, and He chose me from Banu Hashim (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"They said: 'O Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)! When was the Prophethood established for you?' He said: 'While Adam was between (being) soul and body (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Ask Allah to grant me Al-Wasilah." They said: "O Messenger of Allah! And what is Al-Wasilah?" He said: "The highest level of Paradise. No one will attain it except for one man, and I hope that I am him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Salam:"The description of Muhammad is written in the Tawrah, [and the description that] 'Eisa will be buried next to him." (One of the narrators) Abu Mawdud said: "[And] there is a place for a grave left in the house (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) received Revelation when he was forty years old. So he stayed in Makkah for thirteen years and in Al-Madinah for ten. And he died when he was sixty-three years old (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) died when he was sixty-five years old (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Simak bin Harb:from Jabir bin Samurah, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed in Makkah there is a rock that used to give me Salam during the night of my advent, and I know it even now (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:"I was with the Prophet (ﷺ) in Makkah. We departed to one of its suburbs, and no mountain or tree was before him, except that it said: 'Peace be upon you O Messenger of Allah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) used to give Khutbah next to a tree, and then they made a Minbar for him, so he gave Khutbahs on it, so the tree whimpered like a camel. So the Prophet (ﷺ) rubbed it, and it quieted (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Zaid bin Akhtab:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) wiped his hand over my face and supplicated for me." 'Azrah (one of the narrators) said: "Indeed he lived for one-hundred and twenty years, and there weren't upon his head except for a few small grey hairs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:"I have not seen anyone with hair past his shoulders in a red Hullah more handsome than the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ). He had hair that would flow on his shoulders, having broad shoulders, not too short and not too tall (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Ishaq:"A man asked Al-Bara: 'Was the face of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) like a sword?' He said: 'No, like the moon (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Urwah:that 'Aishah said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not speak quickly like you do now, rather he would speak so clearly, unmistakably, that those who sat with him would memorize it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would repeat a statement three times so that it could be understood (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Jaz:"I have not seen anyone who smiled more than the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Jaz:"The laughter of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was not but smiling (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samurah:"The seal of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)" - meaning the one which was between his two shoulder blades - "was fleshy and red, resembling the egg of a pigeon (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samurah:"The two shins of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) were thin, and he would not laugh except as a smile, and whenever I looked at him I would say: "He put kohl on his eyes,' but he (ﷺ) did not use kohl (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin Samurah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) had a wide mouth (Dali' Al-Fam), his eyes were Ashkal, and he had thin heals (Manhus Al-'Aqib) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) died when he was sixty-five years old (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) died when he was sixty-five years old (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) stayed in Makkah for thirteen years - meaning while he was receiving Revelation - and he died when he was sixty-three years old (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir [bin 'Abdullah]:that he heard Mu'awiyah bin Abi Sufyan giving a Khutbah, saying: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) died when he was sixty-three years old, and so did Abu Bakr and 'Umar, and I am sixty-three years old (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah [may Allah be pleased with her]:"The Prophet (ﷺ) died when he was sixty-three years old (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I free myself of the friendship of every Khalil, and if I were to take a Khalil then I would have taken Ibn Abi Quhafah as a Khalil. And indeed your companion is Allah's Khalil (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Umar bin Al-Khattab:"Abu Bakr is our chief, and the best of us, and the most beloved of us to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed the people of the higher levels, will be seen by those who are beneath them like the stars which appear far off in the sky. And indeed Abu Bakr and 'Umar are among them, and they have done well (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Stick to the two after me, Abu Bakr and 'Umar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Hudhaifah [may Allah be pleased with him]:"We were sitting with the Prophet (ﷺ) and he said: 'I do not know how long I will be with you, so stick to the two after me,' and he signaled towards Abu Bakr and 'Umar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said about Abu Bakr and 'Umar: "These two are the masters of the elder people among the inhabitants of Paradise. From the first ones and the last ones, not including the Prophets and the Messengers. But do not inform them O 'Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Abu Bakr and 'Umar are the masters of the elder people among the inhabitants of Paradise, from the first ones and the last ones, not including the Prophets and the Messengers. Do not inform them O 'Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:that Abu Bakr said: "Am I not the most deserving of it among the people, am I not the first to become Muslim, am I not the person of such and such, am I not the person of such and such (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) departed one day and entered the Masjid, along with Abu Bakr and 'Umar. One was on his right and the other was on his left, and he was holding their hands, and he said: "This is how we will be resurrected on the Day of Judgement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to Abu Bakr: "You are my companion at the Hawd, and my companion in the cave (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Hantab:that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw Abu Bakr and 'Umar and said: "These two are the hearing and the seeing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "It is not befitting that a group, among whom is Abu Bakr, be led by other than him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jubair bin Mut'im:that a woman came to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) to speak to him about something. Then he ordered her with something, and she said: "What should I do O Messenger of Allah if I do not find you?" He said: "If you do not find me, then go to Abu Bakr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) ordered the closing of all the gates, except for the gate of Abu Bakr. And there is a narration on this topic from Abu Sa'eed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that Abu Bakr entered upon the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), so he said: "You are Allah's 'Atiq from the Fire." From that day on he was called 'Atiq (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "O Allah! Honor Islam through the most dear of these two men to you: Through Abu Jahl or through 'Umar bin Al-Khattab." He said: "And the most dear of them to Him was 'Umar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "O Allah honor Islam through Abu Jahl bin Hisham or through 'Umar bin Al-Khattab." He said: "So it happened that 'Umar came the next day to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) and accepted Islam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that 'Umar said to Abu Bakr: "O best of people after the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)!" So Abu Bakr said: "If you say that, then I have heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) say: 'The sun has not risen upon a man better than 'Umar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Muhammad bin Sirin:"I don't think that a man who degrades Abu Bakr and 'Umar loves the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If there was to have a Prophet after me, it would have been 'Umar bin Al-Khattab (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'I saw that I was brought a cup of milk, so I drank from it, and I gave my leftover to 'Umar bin Al-Khattab.' They said: 'So what did you interpret it as O Messenger of Allah?' He said: '(It is) Knowledge (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "I entered Paradise and it was as if I was in a palace of gold. So I said: 'Whose palace is this?' They said: 'A youth's, from the Quraish.' So I thought that I was him. I said: 'And who is he?' They said: "'Umar bin Al-Khattab (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Among the nations, there used to be Muhaddathun (those who were given understanding), and if there were one in my nation, it would be 'Umar bin Al-Khattab (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "A man among the inhabitants of Paradise will appear before you." So Abu Bakr appeared. Then he said: "A man among the inhabitants of Paradise will appear before you." So 'Umar appeared (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), Abu Bakr, 'Umar, and 'Uthman climbed Uhud (mountain) and it shook them, so the Prophet of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Be firm O Uhud! For there is none upon you except a Prophet, a Siddiq, and two martyrs (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Talhah bin 'Ubaidullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "For every Prophet there is a friend (Rafiq), and my friend" - meaning in Paradise - "is 'Uthman (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "O 'Uthman! Indeed Allah may give you a shirt, and if they wish that you take it off, do not take it off for them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"While the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was alive, we used to say: 'Abu Bakr, and (then) 'Umar, and (then) 'Uthman (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) mentioned the Fitnah and said: "This one will be wrongfully killed during it," about 'Uthman bin 'Affan [may Allah be pleased with him] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sahlah:"The day of the house (when he was besieged), 'Uthman said: 'Indeed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) took a covenant from me, and I will abide by it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sarihah, or Zaid bin Arqam - Shu'bah had doubt:from the Prophet (ﷺ): "For whomever I am his Mawla then 'Ali is his Mawla (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara bin 'Azib:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to 'Ali bin Abi Talib: "You are from me, and I am from you." And there is a story along with this Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Hubshi bin Junadah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "'Ali is from me and I am from 'Ali. And none should represent me except myself or 'Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"There was a bird with the Prophet (ﷺ), so he said: 'O Allah, send to me the most beloved of Your creatures to eat this bird with me.' So 'Ali came and ate with him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:"When I would ask the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), he would give me, and when I would be silent, he would initiate (speech or giving) with me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I am the house of wisdom, and 'Ali is its door (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to 'Ali: "O 'Ali! It is not permissible for anyone to be Junub in this Masjid except for you and I (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"The advent of the Prophet (ﷺ) was on Monday and 'Ali performed Salat on Tuesday (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ali:"When I would ask the Messenger of Allah SAW he would give me, and when I would be silent, he would initiate (speech or giving) with me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to 'Ali: "You are to me in the position that Harun was to Musa, except that there is no Prophet after me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to 'Ali, "You are to me, in the position that Harun was to Musa, [except that there is no Prophet after me] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) ordered that the gates be closed, except the gate of 'Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Husain:from his father, from his grandfather, 'Ali bin Abi Talib: "The Prophet (ﷺ) took Hasan and Husain by the hand and said: 'Whoever loves me and loves these two, and their father and mother, he shall be with me in my level on the Day of Judgement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The first to perform Salat was 'Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated a man from the Ansar:that Zaid bin Al-Arqam said: "The first to accept Islam was 'Ali." 'Amr bin Murrah said: "So I mentioned that to Ibrahim An-Nakha'i, so he rejected that and said: 'The first to accept Islam was Abu Bakr As-Siddiq (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:"The Prophet (ﷺ) - the Unlettered Prophet - exhorted me (saying): 'None loves you except a believer and none hates you except a hypocrite.'" 'Adi bin Thabit (a narrator) said: "I am from the generation whom the Prophet (ﷺ) supplicated for (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm 'Atiyyah:"The Prophet (ﷺ) sent an army in which was 'Ali." She said: "While he was raising his hands, I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: 'O Allah! Do not cause me to die until You allow me to see 'Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever would be pleased to look at a martyr walking upon the face of the earth, then let him look at Talhah bin 'Ubaidullah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Musa bin Talhah:"I entered upon Mu'awiyah and he said: 'Shall I not give you some good news?' I said: 'Of course!' He said: 'I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: 'Talhah is among those who fulfilled their vow (referring to 33:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin abi Talib:"My ear heard from the mouth of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), while he was saying: 'Talhah and Az-Zubair are my neighbors in Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair:from Az-Zubair, who said: "The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gathered together his parents for me the Day of Quraizah, (i.e. the battle of Ahzab) and said: 'May my mother and father be ransomed for you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib [may Allah be pleased with him]:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Indeed, every Prophet has a Hawari, and my Hawari is Az-Zubair bin Al-'Awwam (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Hisham bin 'Urwah:"On the Day of (the battle of) Al-Jamal, Az-Zubair exhorted his son 'Abdullah, saying: 'There is not a part of me except that it has been injured while with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ),' until that ended with his private parts (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Salamah:that 'Abdur-Rahman bin 'Awf left a garden for the Mothers of the Believers that was sold for four-hundred thousand (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'd:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "O Allah, respond to Sa'd when he supplicates to You (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:"Sa'd came, so the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "This is my maternal uncle, so let a man show me his maternal uncle (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) did not mention both (his) parents for anyone except Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas. On the Day of (the battle of) Uhud he said: 'Shoot, may my father and mother be ransomed for you.' And he said to him: 'Shoot O young man (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'd bin Abi Waqqas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) mentioned both of his parents for me on the Day of Uhud (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:"I never heard the Prophet (ﷺ) mentioning both of his parents being ransomed for anyone except for Sa'd. On the Day of Uhud, I heard him saying: 'Shoot, Sa'd, may my father and mother be ransomed for you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:that concerning Al-'Abbas, the Prophet (ﷺ) said to 'Umar: "Indeed, the uncle of a man is the Sinw of his father." And 'Umar had spoken to him concerning his charity (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Al-'Abbas is the uncle of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and indeed, the uncle of a man is the Sinw of his father or from the Sinw of his father (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "I saw Ja'far flying in Paradise with the angels (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"None has put on sandals - nor worn them, nor ridden a mount, nor a Kur, after the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) - better than Ja'far [bin Abi Talib] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara bin 'Azib:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to Ja'far bin Abi Talib: "You share similarity with me in appearance and in character (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Al-Hasan and Al-Husain are the chiefs of the youths of Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:That the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was asked: "Which of the people of your house are most beloved to you?" He said: "Al-Hasan and Al-Husain." And he used to say to Fatimah: "Call my two sons for me so that I may smell them." And he would hug them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Bakrah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) ascended the Minbar and said: "Indeed, this son of mine is a chief, Allah shall bring peace between two [tremendous] parties through his hands (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"None of them used to resemble the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) more than Al-Hasan bin 'Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Juhaifah:"I saw the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), and Al-Hasan bin 'Ali used to resemble him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:said: "Al-Hasan is greater in resemblance to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with regards to what is between the chest and the head, and Al-Husain is greater in resemblance to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) with regards to what is below that (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:that the Prophet (ﷺ) saw Hasan and Husain, so he said: "O Allah, I love them, so love them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara bin 'Azib:"I saw the Prophet (ﷺ) placing Al-Hasan bin 'Ali upon his shoulder while saying: 'O Allah, I love him, so love him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was carrying Al-Hasan bin 'Ali upon his shoulder, so a man said: "What an excellent mount you are riding, O child." So the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "And what an excellent rider he is (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Love Allah for what He nourishes you with of His Blessings, love me due to the love of Allah, and love the people of my house due to love of me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to Ubayy bin Ka'b: "Indeed Allah ordered me to recite to you: Those who disbelieve were not going to... (98:1) He said: "And He named me?" He said: "Yes." So he wept (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Qatadah:that Anas bin Malik said: "Four gathered the Qur'an during the time of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), all of them are from the Ansar: Ubayy bin Ka'b, Mu'adh bin Jabal, Zaid bin Thabit, and Abu Zaid." I said to Anas: "Who is Abu Zaid?" He said: "One of my uncles (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Indeed, Paradise longs for three: 'Ali, 'Ammar, and Salman (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:that 'Ammar bin Yasir came seeking permission to enter upon the Prophet (ﷺ) so he said: 'Permit him, greetings to the pure one, the purified (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Rejoice, 'Ammar, the transgressing party shall kill you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "There is no one more truthful, that the sky has shaded and the earth has carried, than Abu Dharr (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Take as examples the two after me from my Companions, Abu Bakr and 'Umar. And act upon the guidance of 'Ammar, and hold fast to the advice of Ibn Mas'ud (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:"My brother and I arrived from Yemen, and we did not see a period except that we thought 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud was a man from the people of the house of the Prophet (ﷺ), due to what we would see of him entering, and his mother's entering, upon the Prophet (ﷺ) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If I was going to appoint anyone of them as a leader without any consultation, I would appoint Ibn Umm 'Abd over them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If I was going to appoint anyone as a leader without any consultation, I would appoint Ibn Umm 'Abd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin 'Amr:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Take the Qur'an from four: From Ibn Mas'ud, Ubayy bin Ka'b, Mu'adh bin Jabal, and Salim the freed slave of Abu Hudhaifah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:"We called Zaid bin Harithah nothing but 'Zaid bin Muhammad' until the Qur'an was revealed (ordering): Call them by their fathers, that is more just according to Allah. (33:) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah, the Mother of the Believers:"The Prophet (ﷺ) wanted to wipe the running nose of Usamah." 'Aishah said: "Leave it to me so that I may be the one to do it." He said: "O 'Aishah, love him, for verily I love him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin 'Abdullah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never screened me since I accepted Islam, nor did he look at me except that he laughed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jarir:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) never screened me since I accepted Islam, nor did he look at me except that he smiled (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Jahdam:from Ibn 'Abbas that he saw Jibra'il (AS), two times and the Prophet (ﷺ) supplicated for him two times (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) supplicated for me that Allah should give me Al-Hukm (knowledge, understanding, judging justly, or understanding of the Qur'an) two times (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) pulled me close to him and said: 'O Allah, teach him Al-Hikmah (wisdom) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said to him: "O possessor of two ears!" (One of the narrators) Abu Usamah said: 'He only meant it as a joke (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:from Umm Sulaim, that she said: "O Messenger of Allah, Anas bin Malik is your servant, supplicate to Allah for him." He said: "O Allah, increase his wealth and his children, and bless him in what You have given him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas [may Allah be pleased with him]:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) gave me my Kunyah because of a plant that I used to care for (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Thabit:from Anas, similar to the previous narration of Ibrahim bin Ya'qub, and he did not mention in it: "And the Prophet (ﷺ) took it from Jibra'il (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"I came to the Prophet (ﷺ) and spread out my garment next to him, then he took it and gathered it at my heart, so I did not forget after that [any Hadith] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"I said: 'O Messenger of Allah, I hear from you things that I do not remember.' He said: 'Spread your cloak.' So I spread it, then he narrated many Ahadith, and I did not forget a thing that he reported to me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Walid bin 'Abdur-Rahman:that Ibn 'Umar said to Abu Hurairah: "You used to stick to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) most out of all of us, and you used to best memorize his Ahadith out of us (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me: 'Who are you from?' I said: 'From Daws.' He said: 'I did not used think there was anyone from Daws in whom there was good (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah [may Allah be pleased with him] :"There is none with more Ahadith from the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) than I, except for 'Abdullah bin 'Amr, for he used to write, (the Ahadith) and I did not used to write (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdur-Rahman bin Abu 'Umairah - and he was one of the Companions of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ):from the Prophet (ﷺ), that he said to Mu'awiyah: "O Allah, make him a guiding one, and guide (others) by him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Uqbah bin 'Amir:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The people submitted while 'Amr bin Al-'As believed (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Talhah bin 'Ubaidullah:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) saying: 'Indeed, 'Amr bin Al-'As is from among the righteous of the Quraish (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Al-Bara:"A garment of silk was gifted to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) so they began to marvel at its softness, so the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Do you marvel at this? Indeed, the handkerchiefs of Sa'd bin Mu'adh in Paradise are better than this (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:"I heard the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ), saying while the funeral of Sa'd bin Mu'adh was in front of them: 'The Throne of Ar-Rahman shook due to it (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:"When the funeral of Sa'd bin Mu'adh was carried, the hypocrites said: 'How light his funeral is.' And this was due to his judgment concerning Banu Quraizah. So this reached the Prophet (ﷺ), and he said: 'Indeed, the angels were carrying him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:"Qais bin Sa'd used to be, to the Prophet (ﷺ), in the position of the head of police for a ruler." (One of the narrators) Al-Ansari said: "That is: Due to his affairs that he takes charge of (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) came to me, not riding a mule nor a Birdhawn (a type of Turkish horse) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) supplicated for forgiveness for me on the Night of the Camel, twenty-five times (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "How many are there with dishevelled hair, covered with dust, possessing two cloths, whom no one pays any mind to - if he swears by Allah then He shall fulfill it. Among them is Al-Bara bin Malik (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "O Abu Musa! You have been given a Mizmar among the Mazamir of the family of Dawud (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sahl bin Sa'd:"We were with the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) while he was excavating the trench, and we were transporting the soil. He passed by us and said: 'O Allah! There is no life but the life of the Hereafter! So forgive the Ansar and the Emigrants (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) would say: "O Allah! There is no life but the life of the Hereafter! So honor the Ansar and the Emigrants (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Talhah bin Khirash:"I heard Jabir bin 'Abdullah saying: 'I heard the Prophet (ﷺ) saying: "The Fire shall not touch the Muslim who saw me, or saw one who saw me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best generation is my generation, then those who follow them, then those who follow them. Then comes a people after that whose swearing precedes their testimony, or whose testimony precedes their swearing (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "None of those who gave the pledge under the tree shall enter the Fire (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Do not abuse my Companions, for by the One in Whose Hand is my soul! If one of you were to spend gold the like of Uhud, it would not equal a Mudd - nor half of it - of one of them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Az-Zubair:from Jabir, that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Those who gave the pledge under the tree shall enter Paradise, except for the owner of the red camel (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Buraidah:from his father, that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "There is no one among my Companions who dies in a land except that he shall be resurrected as a guide and light for them (people of that land) on the Day of Resurrection (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If you see those who abuse my Companions, then say: 'May Allah's curse be upon the worst of you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Buraidah:"The most beloved of women to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was Fatimah and from the men was 'Ali (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Az-Zubair:that 'Ali mentioned the daughter of Abu Jahl (for marriage), and that reached the Prophet (ﷺ) so he said: "Indeed Fatimah is but a part of me, I am harmed by what harms her and I am uncomfortable by what makes her uncomfortable (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Arqam:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to 'Ali, Fatimah, Al-Hasan and Al-Husain: "I am at war with whoever makes war with you, and peace for whoever makes peace with you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best of its women is Khadijah bint Khuwailid, and the best of its women is Mariam bint 'Imran (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas [may Allah be pleased with him]:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Sufficient for you among the women of mankind are Mariam bint 'Imran, Khadijah bint Khuwailid, Fatimah bint Muhammad and Asiyah the wife of Fir'awn (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that Jibril came to the Prophet (ﷺ) with her image upon a piece of green silk cloth, and he said: "This is your wife in the world, and in the Hereafter (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah [may Allah be pleased with her]:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "O 'Aishah! Here is Jibril and he is giving Salam to you." She said: "I said: 'And upon him be peace and the mercy of Allah, and His blessings. You see that which we do not (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'Indeed Jibril gives his Salam to you.' So I said: 'And upon him be peace and Allah's Mercy [and His blessings] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Musa:"Never was a Hadith unclear to us - the Companions of the Messenger of Allah - and we asked 'Aishah, except that we found some knowledge concerning it with her (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Musa bin Talhah:"I have not seen anyone clearer (in speech) than 'Aishah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Al-'As:that he said to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ): "Who is the most beloved of the people to you?" He said: "'Aishah." He said: "From the men?" He said: "Her farther (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The virtue of 'Aishah over women is like the virtue of Tharid over all other foods (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Amr bin Ghalib:that a man spoke negatively of 'Aishah before 'Ammar bin Yasir so he said: "Be gone as one despicable and rejected! Do you insult the beloved of the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ)? (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ammar bin Yasir:"She is his wife in the world and in the Hereafter." - meaning: 'Aishah [may Allah be pleased with her] (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas [May Allah be pleased with him]:"It was said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Who is the most beloved of the people to you?' He said: ''Aishah.' It was said: 'From the men?' He said: 'Her father (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Aishah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best of you is the best to his wives, and I am the best of you to my wives, and when your companion dies, leave him alone (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Mas'ud:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "No one should convey to me anything regarding anyone (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ubayy bin Ka'b:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "If it were not for the Hijrah, I would be a man from the Ansar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Talhah:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'Convey my Salam to your people, because I know them to be modest and patient (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Sa'eed Al-Khudri:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Indeed my elite, those whom I lean towards, are the people of my house and my close ones are the Ansar, so forgive those who do wrong from them and accept from those who do good from them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'd:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever wishes to humiliate the Quraish then Allah will humiliate him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:"The Prophet (ﷺ) said to me: 'A man who believes in Allah and the Last Day does not hate the Ansar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Ansar are my close ones and my elite. Indeed the people shall increase and they shall dwindle, so accept from those who do good among them, and overlook those who do bad among them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "O Allah! You made the first of the Quraish taste punishment, so let the last of them taste blessings (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "O Allah forgive the Ansar and the children of the Ansar, and the children of the children of the Ansar, and the women of the Ansar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir bin 'Abdullah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best house of the Ansar is Banu An-Najjar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir [bin 'Abdullah]:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The best of the Ansar are Banu 'Abdul-Ashhal (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Ali bin Abi Talib and Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whatever is between my house and my Minbar is a garden from the gardens of Paradise (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Whoever is able to die in Al-Madinah, then let him die there, for I will intercede for those who die there (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The last of the cities of Islam to be destroyed is Al-Madinah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Sa'eed bin Al-Musayyab:that Abu Hurairah used to say: "If I saw hyenas roaming in Al-Madinah, I would not advance upon them. Indeed the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: 'Whatever is between its two lava tracts is sacred (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that (mount) Uhud appeared to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) so he said: "This mountain loves us and we love it. O Allah! Indeed Ibrahim made Makkah sacred, and I make sacred whatever is between its (i.e. Al-Madinah) two lava tracts (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jarir bin 'Abdullah:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Indeed Allah has revealed to me that: Whichever of these three places you go to will be the place of your emigration: Al-Madinah, Bahrain, or Qinnasrin (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "No one is patient with the difficulties and hardships of Al-Madinah, except that I am an intercessor, or a witness for him on the Day of Judgement (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Abbas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said about Makkah: "How sweet of a land you are and how dear you are to me, and if it were not that my people expelled me from you, I would not have lived in other than you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Salman:"The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said to me: 'O Salman! Do not detest me and thereby leave your religion.' I said: 'O Messenger of Allah! How could I detest you while Allah guided us by you.' He said: 'You will detest the Arabs and thereby detest me (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Uthman bin 'Affan:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Whoever cheats the Arabs, he will not be included in my intercession, and my love shall not reach him (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Umm Sharik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The people will flee from the Dajjal such that they will go to the mountains." Umm Sharik said: "O Messenger of Allah! Where will the Arabs be that day?" He said: "They will be few (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Samurah bin Jundab:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Sam was the father of Arabs, Yafith was the father of Romans, and Ham was the father of Ethiopians (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:"Al-'Ajam (non-Arabs) were mentioned before the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) so the Prophet (ﷺ) said: 'I am supported more by them, or, by some of them, than I am by you, or some of you (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Zaid bin Thabit [may Allah be pleased with him]:that the Prophet (ﷺ) looked towards Yemen and said: "O Allah direct their hearts and bless us in our Sa' and our Mudd (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The people of Yemen have come to you. They are weaker in heart and softer in understanding, faith is Yemeni and wisdom is Yemeni (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Hurairah:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Leadership is among the Quraish, and reasoning and judgment is among the Ansar, and the Adhan is among the Ethiopians, and the trust is among the Al-Azd." meaning Yemen (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Al-Azd is Allah's lion upon the earth, the people wish to lower them but Allah refuses except to raise them. A time will come upon the people where a man will say: "I wish my father was Azadi, I wish my mother was Azadi (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas:"If we are not from Al-Azd then we are not from the people (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Abu Ayyub Al-Ansari:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "The Ansar, Muzainah, and Juhainah, Ashja', Ghifar, and whoever is from Banu 'Abdid-Dar are Mawali. They do not have a Mawla other than Allah, and Allah and His Messenger are their Mawla (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "Aslam, may Allah make them safe: Ghifar, may Allah forgive them, and 'Usayyah has disobeyed Allah and His Messenger (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Jabir:"They said: 'O Messenger of Allah! Thaqif are razing us with their arrows, so supplicate to Allah against them!' So he said: 'O Allah! Guide Thaqif (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Imran bin Husain:"The Prophet (ﷺ) died while he was having trouble with three tribes: Thaqif, Banu Hanifah, and Banu Umayyah (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "In Thaqif there is a liar and a destroyer (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Ibn 'Umar:that the Prophet (ﷺ) said: "Aslam, may Allah make them safe, and Ghifar, may Allah forgive them (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated 'Abdullah bin Dinar:similar to Shu'bah (#3948) and he added: "And 'Usayyah has disobeyed Allah and His Messenger (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Ibn Abbas narrated that :The wife of Thabit bin Qais was granted a Khul from her husband during the time of the Prophet. So the Prophet ordered her to observe an Iddah of a menstruation (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) which is similar to the narration of Muhammad bin Rabi'ah (a narrator in no.1424) but he did not narrate it in Marfu' form (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Asbat bin Muhammad reported it from Al-A'mash who said: "It has been narrated to me from Abu Salih, from Abu Hurairah, from the Prophet (ﷺ)," and it is similar. [It is as if this is more correct than the first narration.] (Another chain) for this Hadith (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) with similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) with similar (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Another chain on the authority of 'Imran bin Husain narrates a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from 'Ali from the Prophet (ﷺ) with similar meaning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from Iyas bin Salamah from his father, from the Prophet (ﷺ) with similar narration, except that he said to him the third time:"You are suffering from a cold." [He said:] And this is more correct than the narration of Ibn Al-Mubarak (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Shu'bah reported this Hadith from 'Ikrimah bin 'Ammar and it is similar to the narration of Yahya bin Sa'eed. (A chain to support that) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
And 'Abdur-Rahman bin Mahdi reported it from 'Ikrimah bin 'Ammar and it is similar to the narration of Ibn Al-Mubarak, but he said to him the third time:"You are suffering from a cold." (A chain to support that) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Another chain with a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) with a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Another chain of narration similar in meaning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Shu'bah and Ath-Thawri reported it from Abu Ishaq from Al-Bara bin 'Azib who said:"I saw a red Hullah on the Messenger of Allah." (Another chain of narration) (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Anas bin Malik:that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) prohibited saffron for men (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Salim and Hamzah, the sons of 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:from their father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "An omen is in three: A woman, a dwelling, and a (riding) beast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Salim and Hamzah, the sons of 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:from their father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "An omen is in three: A woman, a dwelling, and a (riding) beast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Narrated Salim and Hamzah, the sons of 'Abdullah bin 'Umar:from their father that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: "An omen is in three: A woman, a dwelling, and a (riding) beast (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) from 'Aishah with the same narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
(Another chain) with similar meaning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
It has been reported from Hisham bin 'Urwah from his father, that 'Aishah said:"The most loved deed to the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) was what he could do regularly." (Another chain) with similar meaning (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Another chain reports a similar narration (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Abu Hurairah narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Indeed, having good thoughts concerning Allah is from the perfection of the worship of Allah.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Umar bin Abi Salamah narrated from his father, who said:“The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said: ‘Let one of you look at what it is that he wishes for. For verily, he does not know what of his wish shall be recorded.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thabit narrated from Anas, who said “The Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:‘Let one of you ask his Lord for his every need, even until he asks Him for the strap of his sandal when it breaks.’” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
Thabit Al-Bunani narrated that the Messenger of Allah (ﷺ) said:“Let one of you ask his Lord for his every need, until he asks Him for salt, and asks Him for the strap of his sandal when it breaks.” (from eng-tirmidhi.txt)
